<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="addhostonlysolaris">
  <title>Configuring Multiple Host-Only Network Interfaces on Oracle Solaris
      Hosts</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      By default <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> provides you with one host-only network
      interface. Adding more host-only network interfaces on Oracle
      Solaris hosts requires manual configuration. Here is how to add
      another host-only network interface.
    </p>
    <p>
      Begin by stopping all running VMs. Then, unplumb the existing
      "vboxnet0" interface by execute the following command as root:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># ifconfig vboxnet0 unplumb</pre>
    <p>
      If you have several vboxnet interfaces, you will need to unplumb
      all of them. Once all vboxnet interfaces are unplumbed, remove the
      driver by executing the following command as root:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># rem_drv vboxnet</pre>
    <p>
      Edit the file
      <filepath>/platform/i86pc/kernel/drv/vboxnet.conf</filepath> and
      add a line for the new interface we want to add as shown below:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">name="vboxnet" parent="pseudo" instance=1;
name="vboxnet" parent="pseudo" instance=2;</pre>
    <p>
      Add as many of these lines as required with each line having a
      unique instance number.
    </p>
    <p>
      Next, reload the vboxnet driver by executing the following command
      as root:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># add_drv vboxnet</pre>
    <p>
      On Oracle Solaris 11.1 and newer hosts you may want to rename the
      default vanity interface name. To check what name has been
      assigned, execute:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ dladm show-phys
LINK              MEDIA                STATE      SPEED  DUPLEX    DEVICE
net0              Ethernet             up         100    full      e1000g0
net2              Ethernet             up         1000   full      vboxnet1
net1              Ethernet             up         1000   full      vboxnet0</pre>
    <p>
      In the above example, we can rename "net2" to "vboxnet1" before
      proceeding to plumb the interface. This can be done by executing
      as root:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># dladm rename-link net2 vboxnet1</pre>
    <p>
      Now plumb all the interfaces using <userinput>ifconfig
      vboxnet<varname>X</varname> plumb</userinput>, where
      <varname>X</varname> would be 1 in this case. Once the
      interface is plumbed, it may be configured like any other network
      interface. Refer to the <userinput>ifconfig</userinput> documentation
      for further details.
    </p>
    <p>
      To make the settings for the newly added interfaces persistent
      across reboots, you will need to edit the files
      <filepath>/etc/inet/netmasks</filepath>, and if you are using NWAM
      <filepath>/etc/nwam/llp</filepath> and add the appropriate entries
      to set the netmask and static IP for each of those interfaces. The
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> installer only updates these configuration files
      for the one "vboxnet0" interface it creates by default.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
