<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="additions-linux">
  <title>Guest Additions for Linux</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Like the Windows Guest Additions, the Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest
        Additions for Linux are a set of device drivers and system
        applications which may be installed in the guest operating
        system.
      </p>
    <p>
        The following Linux distributions are officially supported:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Oracle Linux as of version 5, including UEK kernels
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Fedora as of Fedora Core 4
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Red Hat Enterprise Linux as of version 3
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            SUSE and openSUSE Linux as of version 9
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Ubuntu as of version 5.10
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        Many other distributions are known to work with the Guest
        Additions.
      </p>
    <p>
        The version of the Linux kernel supplied by default in SUSE and
        openSUSE 10.2, Ubuntu 6.10 (all versions) and Ubuntu 6.06
        (server edition) contains a bug which can cause it to crash
        during startup when it is run in a virtual machine. The Guest
        Additions work in those distributions.
      </p>
    <p>
        Note that some Linux distributions already come with all or part
        of the Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions. You may choose to keep
        the distribution's version of the Guest Additions but these are
        often not up to date and limited in functionality, so we
        recommend replacing them with the Guest Additions that come with
        Oracle VM VirtualBox. The Oracle VM VirtualBox Linux Guest Additions
        installer tries to detect an existing installation and replace
        them but depending on how the distribution integrates the Guest
        Additions, this may require some manual interaction. It is
        highly recommended to take a snapshot of the virtual machine
        before replacing preinstalled Guest Additions.
      </p>
  </body>
</topic>
