<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="additions-linux-graphics-mouse">
  <title>Graphics and Mouse Integration</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          In Linux and Oracle Solaris guests, Oracle VM VirtualBox graphics
          and mouse integration goes through the X Window System.
          Oracle VM VirtualBox can use the X.Org variant of the system, or
          XFree86 version 4.3 which is identical to the first X.Org
          release. During the installation process, the X.Org display
          server will be set up to use the graphics and mouse drivers
          which come with the Guest Additions.
        </p>
    <p>
          After installing the Guest Additions into a fresh installation
          of a supported Linux distribution or Oracle Solaris system,
          many unsupported systems will work correctly too, the guest's
          graphics mode will change to fit the size of the
          Oracle VM VirtualBox window on the host when it is resized. You can
          also ask the guest system to switch to a particular resolution
          by sending a video mode hint using the
          <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> tool.
        </p>
    <p>
          Multiple guest monitors are supported in guests using the
          X.Org server version 1.3, which is part of release 7.3 of the
          X Window System version 11, or a later version. The layout of
          the guest screens can be adjusted as needed using the tools
          which come with the guest operating system.
        </p>
    <p>
          If you want to understand more about the details of how the
          X.Org drivers are set up, in particular if you wish to use
          them in a setting which our installer does not handle
          correctly, see <xref href="guestxorgsetup.dita">Guest Graphics and Mouse Driver Setup in Depth</xref>.
        </p>
    <p>
          Starting from Oracle VM VirtualBox 7, Linux guest screen resize
          functionality for guests running VMSVGA graphics configuration
          has been changed. Since then, this functionality consists of a
          standalone daemon called VBoxDRMClient and its Desktop
          Environment helper counterpart.
        </p>
    <p>
          VBoxDRMClient runs as a root process and is a bridge between
          the host and the guest's vmwgfx driver. This means that
          VBoxDRMClient listens to screen resize hints from the host and
          forwards them to the vmwgfx driver. This enables guest screen
          resize functionality to be available before the user has
          performed a graphical login.
        </p>
    <p>
          In order to perform Desktop Environment specific actions, such
          as setting the primary screen in a multimonitor setup, a
          Desktop Environment helper is used. Once the user has
          performed a graphical login operation, the helper daemon
          starts with user session scope and attempts to connect to
          VBoxDRMClient using an IPC connection. When VBoxDRMClient has
          received a corresponding command from the host, it is
          forwarded to the helper daemon over IPC and the action is then
          performed.
        </p>
    <p>
          By default, VBoxDRMClient allows any process to connect to its
          IPC socket. This can be restricted by using the following
          steps:
        </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
              The Guest Additions Linux installer creates a
              <codeph>vboxdrmipc</codeph> user group. A corresponding
              user needs to be added to this group.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              You must set the <codeph>DRMIpcRestricted</codeph> guest
              property, as follows:
            </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage guestproperty set "VM name" /VirtualBox/GuestAdd/DRMIpcRestricted 1 \
--flags RDONLYGUEST</pre>
        <p>
              It is important to set only the RDONLYGUEST flag for the
              property, so that it cannot be changed from inside the
              guest.
            </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <note>
      <p>
            Both steps are required. If one of them is missing, all
            processes will have access to the IPC socket.
          </p>
    </note>
    <p>
          Restricted mode can be disabled by unsetting the guest
          property, as follows:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage guestproperty unset "VM name" /VirtualBox/GuestAdd/DRMIpcRestricted</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
