<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="additions-windows-install-unattended-certs">
  <title>Installing Code Signing Certificates</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
            To avoid popups when performing an unattended installation
            of the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Guest Additions, the code signing
            certificates used to sign the drivers needs to be installed
            in the correct certificate stores on the guest operating
            system. Failure to do this will cause a typical Windows
            installation to display multiple dialogs asking whether you
            want to install a particular driver.
          </p>
    <note>
      <p>
              On some legacy Windows versions, such as Windows 2000 and
              Windows XP, the user intervention popups mentioned above
              are always displayed, even after importing the Oracle
              certificates.
            </p>
    </note>
    <p>
            Installing the code signing certificates on a Windows guest
            can be done automatically. Use the
            <filepath>VBoxCertUtil.exe</filepath> utility from the
            <filepath>cert</filepath> folder on the Guest Additions
            installation CD.
          </p>
    <p>
            Use the following steps:
          </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
                Log in as Administrator on the guest.
              </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
                Mount the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Guest Additions .ISO.
              </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
                Open a command line window on the guest and change to
                the <filepath>cert</filepath> folder on the
                <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Guest Additions CD.
              </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
                Run the following command:
              </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxCertUtil.exe add-trusted-publisher vbox*.cer --root vbox*.cer</pre>
        <p>
                This command installs the certificates to the
                certificate store. When installing the same certificate
                more than once, an appropriate error will be displayed.
              </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <p>
            To allow for completely unattended guest installations, you
            can specify a command line parameter to the install
            launcher:
          </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxWindowsAdditions.exe /S</pre>
    <p>
            This automatically installs the right files and drivers for
            the corresponding platform, either 32-bit or 64-bit.
          </p>
    <note>
      <p>
              By default on an unattended installation on a Vista or
              Windows 7 guest, there will be the XPDM graphics driver
              installed. This graphics driver does not support Windows
              Aero / Direct3D on the guest. Instead, the WDDM graphics
              driver needs to be installed. To select this driver by
              default, add the command line parameter
              <codeph>/with_wddm</codeph> when invoking the Windows
              Guest Additions installer. This is only required for Vista
              and Windows 7.
            </p>
    </note>
    <note>
      <p>
              For Windows Aero to run correctly on a guest, the guest's
              VRAM size needs to be configured to at least 128 MB.
            </p>
    </note>
    <p>
            For more options regarding unattended guest installations,
            consult the command line help by using the command:
          </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxWindowsAdditions.exe /?</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
