<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="autologon_win">
  <title>Automated Windows Guest Logins</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Windows provides a modular system login subsystem, called
        Winlogon, which can be customized and extended by means of
        so-called GINA (Graphical Identification and Authentication)
        modules. In Windows Vista and later releases, the GINA modules
        were replaced with a new mechanism called credential providers.
        The Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions for Windows come with both, a
        GINA and a credential provider module, and therefore enable any
        Windows guest to perform automated logins.
      </p>
    <p>
        To activate the Oracle VM VirtualBox GINA or credential provider
        module, install the Guest Additions using the command line
        switch <codeph>/with_autologon</codeph>. All the following
        manual steps required for installing these modules will be then
        done by the installer.
      </p>
    <p>
        To manually install the Oracle VM VirtualBox GINA module, extract the
        Guest Additions as shown in
        <xref href="windows-guest-file-extraction.dita">Manual File Extraction</xref>, and copy the
        <filepath>VBoxGINA.dll</filepath> file to the Windows
        <filepath>SYSTEM32</filepath> directory. In the registry, create
        the following key with a value of
        <filepath>VBoxGINA.dll</filepath>:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\GinaDLL</pre>
    <note>
      <p>
          The Oracle VM VirtualBox GINA module is implemented as a wrapper
          around the <filepath>MSGINA.DLL</filepath> standard Windows
          GINA module. As a result, it might not work correctly with
          third-party GINA modules.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        To manually install the Oracle VM VirtualBox credential provider
        module, extract the Guest Additions as shown in
        <xref href="windows-guest-file-extraction.dita">Manual File Extraction</xref> and copy the
        <filepath>VBoxCredProv.dll</filepath> file to the Windows
        <filepath>SYSTEM32</filepath> directory. In the registry, create
        the following keys:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\
Authentication\Credential Providers\{275D3BCC-22BB-4948-A7F6-3A3054EBA92B}

HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\CLSID\{275D3BCC-22BB-4948-A7F6-3A3054EBA92B}

HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\CLSID\{275D3BCC-22BB-4948-A7F6-3A3054EBA92B}\InprocServer32</pre>
    <p>
        All default values, the key named <codeph>Default</codeph>,
        must be set to <codeph>VBoxCredProv</codeph>.
      </p>
    <p>
        Create the following string and assign it a value of
        <codeph>Apartment</codeph>.
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\CLSID\{275D3BCC-22BB-4948-A7F6-3A3054EBA92B}\InprocServer32\ThreadingModel</pre>
    <p>
        To set credentials, use the following command on a
        <i>running</i> VM:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage controlvm "Windows XP" setcredentials "John Doe" "secretpassword" "DOMTEST"</pre>
    <p>
        While the VM is running, the credentials can be queried by the
        Oracle VM VirtualBox login modules, GINA or credential provider, using
        the Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions device driver. When Windows
        is in <i>logged out</i> mode, the login modules
        will constantly poll for credentials and if they are present, a
        login will be attempted. After retrieving the credentials, the
        login modules will erase them so that the above command will
        have to be repeated for subsequent logins.
      </p>
    <p>
        For security reasons, credentials are not stored in any
        persistent manner and will be lost when the VM is reset. Also,
        the credentials are write-only. There is no way to retrieve the
        credentials from the host side. Credentials can be reset from
        the host side by setting empty values.
      </p>
    <p>
        Depending on the Windows guest version, the following
        restrictions apply:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            For <b outputclass="bold">Windows XP guests.</b> The
            login subsystem needs to be configured to use the classic
            login dialog, as the Oracle VM VirtualBox GINA module does not
            support the Windows XP-style welcome dialog.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8,
            and Windows 10 guests.</b> The login subsystem does
            not support the so-called Secure Attention Sequence,
            <codeph>Ctrl+Alt+Del</codeph>. As a result, the guest's
            group policy settings need to be changed to not use the
            Secure Attention Sequence. Also, the user name given is only
            compared to the true user name, not the user friendly name.
            This means that when you rename a user, you still have to
            supply the original user name as Windows never renames user
            accounts internally.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Automatic login handling of the built-in
            <b outputclass="bold">Windows Remote Desktop
            Service</b>, formerly known as Terminal Services, is
            disabled by default. To enable it, create the following
            registry key with a <codeph>DWORD</codeph> value of
            <codeph>1</codeph>.
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Oracle\VirtualBox Guest Additions\AutoLogon</pre>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        The following command forces Oracle VM VirtualBox to keep the
        credentials after they were read by the guest and on VM reset:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage setextradata "Windows XP" VBoxInternal/Devices/VMMDev/0/Config/KeepCredentials 1</pre>
    <p>
        Note that this is a potential security risk, as a malicious
        application running on the guest could request this information
        using the proper interface.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
