<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="autologon_unix">
  <title>Automated Linux and UNIX Guest Logins</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Oracle VM VirtualBox provides a custom PAM module (Pluggable
        Authentication Module) which can be used to perform automated
        guest logins on platforms which support this framework.
        Virtually all modern Linux and UNIX distributions rely on PAM.
      </p>
    <p>
        For automated logins on Ubuntu, or Ubuntu-derived, distributions
        using LightDM as the display manager. See
        <xref href="autologon_unix_lightdm.dita#autologon_unix_lightdm"/>.
      </p>
    <p>
        The <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath> module itself
        <i>does not</i> do an actual verification of the
        credentials passed to the guest OS. Instead it relies on other
        modules such as <filepath>pam_unix.so</filepath> or
        <filepath>pam_unix2.so</filepath> down in the PAM stack to do
        the actual validation using the credentials retrieved by
        <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath>. Therefore
        <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath> has to be on top of the
        authentication PAM service list.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          The <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath> module only supports the
          <codeph>auth</codeph> primitive. Other primitives such as
          <codeph>account</codeph>, <codeph>session</codeph>, or
          <codeph>password</codeph> are not supported.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        The <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath> module is shipped as part
        of the Guest Additions but it is not installed and/or activated
        on the guest OS by default. In order to install it, it has to be
        copied from
        <filepath>/opt/VBoxGuestAdditions-<varname>version</varname>/other/</filepath>
        to the security modules directory. This is usually
        <filepath>/lib/security/</filepath> on 32-bit Linux guests or
        <filepath>/lib64/security/</filepath> on 64-bit Linux guests.
        Please refer to your guest OS documentation for the correct PAM
        module directory.
      </p>
    <p>
        For example, to use <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath> with a
        Ubuntu Linux guest OS and the GNOME Desktop Manager (GDM) to log
        in users automatically with the credentials passed by the host,
        configure the guest OS as follows:
      </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
            Copy the <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath> module to the
            security modules directory. In this case,
            <filepath>/lib/security</filepath>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Edit the PAM configuration file for GDM, found at
            <filepath>/etc/pam.d/gdm</filepath>. Add the line
            <codeph>auth requisite pam_vbox.so</codeph> at the top.
            Additionally, in most Linux distributions there is a file
            called <filepath>/etc/pam.d/common-auth</filepath>. This
            file is included in many other services, like the GDM file
            mentioned above. There you also have to add the line
            <codeph>auth requisite pam_vbox.so</codeph>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            If authentication against the shadow database using
            <filepath>pam_unix.so</filepath> or
            <filepath>pam_unix2.so</filepath> is desired, the argument
            <codeph>try_first_pass</codeph> for
            <filepath>pam_unix.so</filepath> or
            <codeph>use_first_pass</codeph> for
            <filepath>pam_unix2.so</filepath> is needed in order to pass
            the credentials from the Oracle VM VirtualBox module to the shadow
            database authentication module. For Ubuntu, this needs to be
            added to <filepath>/etc/pam.d/common-auth</filepath>, to the
            end of the line referencing
            <filepath>pam_unix.so</filepath>. This argument tells the
            PAM module to use credentials already present in the stack,
            such as the ones provided by the Oracle VM VirtualBox PAM module.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <note type="attention">
      <p>
          An incorrectly configured PAM stack can effectively prevent
          you from logging into your guest system.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        To make deployment easier, you can pass the argument
        <codeph>debug</codeph> right after the
        <filepath>pam_vbox.so</filepath> statement. Debug log output
        will then be recorded using syslog.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          By default, <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> does not wait for
          credentials to arrive from the host. When a login prompt is
          shown, for example by GDM/KDM or the text console, and
          <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> does not yet have credentials it
          does not wait until they arrive. Instead the next module in
          the PAM stack, depending on the PAM configuration, will have
          the chance for authentication.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p><userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> supports various guest property
        parameters that are located in
        <filepath>/VirtualBox/GuestAdd/PAM/</filepath>. These parameters
        allow <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> to wait for credentials to be
        provided by the host and optionally can show a message while
        waiting for those. The following guest properties can be set:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>CredsWait</codeph>: Set to 1 if
            <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> should start waiting until
            credentials arrive from the host. Until then no other
            authentication methods such as manually logging in will be
            available. If this property is empty or gets deleted no
            waiting for credentials will be performed and
            <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> will act like before. This
            property must be set read-only for the guest
            (<codeph>RDONLYGUEST</codeph>).
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>CredsWaitAbort</codeph>: Aborts waiting for
            credentials when set to any value. Can be set from host and
            the guest.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>CredsWaitTimeout</codeph>: Timeout, in seconds, to
            let <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> wait for credentials to
            arrive. When no credentials arrive within this timeout,
            authentication of <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> will be set to
            failed and the next PAM module in chain will be asked. If
            this property is not specified, set to 0 or an invalid
            value, an infinite timeout will be used. This property must
            be set read-only for the guest
            (<codeph>RDONLYGUEST</codeph>).
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        To customize <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> further there are the
        following guest properties:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>CredsMsgWaiting</codeph>: Custom message showed
            while pam_vbox is waiting for credentials from the host.
            This property must be set read-only for the guest
            (<codeph>RDONLYGUEST</codeph>).
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>CredsMsgWaitTimeout</codeph>: Custom message
            showed when waiting for credentials by
            <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> has timed out. For example, they
            did not arrive within time. This property must be set
            read-only for the guest (<codeph>RDONLYGUEST</codeph>).
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <note>
      <p>
          If a <userinput>pam_vbox</userinput> guest property does not have
          the correct flag set (<codeph>RDONLYGUEST</codeph>) the
          property is ignored and, depending on the property, a default
          value will be used. This can result in pam_vbox not waiting
          for credentials. Consult the appropriate syslog file for more
          information and use the <codeph>debug</codeph> option.
        </p>
    </note>
  </body>
</topic>
