<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="autostart-linux">
  <title>Linux: Starting the Autostart Service With init</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        On Linux, the autostart service is activated by setting two
        variables in <filepath>/etc/default/virtualbox</filepath>. The
        first one is <codeph>VBOXAUTOSTART_DB</codeph> which contains
        an absolute path to the autostart database directory. The
        directory should have write access for every user who should be
        able to start virtual machines automatically. Furthermore the
        directory should have the sticky bit set. The second variable is
        <codeph>VBOXAUTOSTART_CONFIG</codeph> which points the service
        to the autostart configuration file which is used during boot to
        determine whether to allow individual users to start a VM
        automatically and configure startup delays. The configuration
        file can be placed in <filepath>/etc/vbox</filepath> and
        contains several options. One is
        <codeph>default_policy</codeph> which controls whether the
        autostart service allows or denies to start a VM for users which
        are not in the exception list. The exception list starts with
        <codeph>exception_list</codeph> and contains a comma separated
        list with usernames. Furthermore a separate startup delay can be
        configured for every user to avoid overloading the host. A
        sample configuration is given below:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># Default policy is to deny starting a VM, the other option is "allow".
default_policy = deny

# Bob is allowed to start virtual machines but starting them
# will be delayed for 10 seconds
bob = {
    allow = true
    startup_delay = 10
}

# Alice is not allowed to start virtual machines, useful to exclude certain users
# if the default policy is set to allow.
alice = {
    allow = false
}
</pre>
    <p>
        Any user who wants to enable autostart for individual machines
        must set the path to the autostart database directory with the
        following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setproperty autostartdbpath <varname>autostart-directory</varname>
                  </pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
