<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="autostart-windows">
  <title>Windows: Starting the Autostart Service</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        On Windows, autostart functionality consist of two components.
        The first component is a configuration file where the
        administrator can both set a delayed start for the VMs and
        temporarily disable autostarting for a particular user. The
        configuration file should be located in a folder accessible by
        all required users but it should have permissions allowing only
        reading by everyone but administrators. The configuration file
        contains several options. The <codeph>default_policy</codeph>
        controls whether the autostart service allows or denies starting
        of a VM for users that are not in the exception list. The
        exception list starts with <codeph>exception_list</codeph> and
        contains a comma separated list with usernames. Furthermore, a
        separate startup delay can be configured for every user to avoid
        overloading the host. A sample configuration is given below:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">    # Default policy is to deny starting a VM, the other option is "allow".
    default_policy = deny

    # Bob is allowed to start virtual machines but starting them
    # will be delayed for 10 seconds
    bob = {
        allow = true
        startup_delay = 10
    }

    # Alice is not allowed to start virtual machines, useful to exclude certain users
    # if the default policy is set to allow.
    alice = {
        allow = false
    }
</pre>
    <p>
        The user name can be specified using the following forms:
        "user", "domain\user", ".\user" and "user@domain". An
        administrator must add the
        <codeph>VBOXAUTOSTART_CONFIG</codeph> environment variable
        into system variables containing the path to the configuration
        file described above. The environment variable tells the
        autostart services which configuration file is used.
      </p>
    <p>
        The second component of autostart functionality is a Windows
        service. Every instance of this works on behalf of a particular
        user using their credentials.
      </p>
    <p>
        To enable autostarting for a particular user, a member of the
        administrators group must run the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxAutostartSvc install --user=<varname>user</varname> [--password-file=<varname>password_file</varname>]</pre>
    <p>
        The password file should contain the password followed by a line
        break. The rest of the file is ignored. The user will be asked
        for a password if the password file is not specified.
      </p>
    <p>
        To disable autostarting for particular user, a member of the
        administrators group must run the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxAutostartSvc delete --user=<varname>user</varname>
                  </pre>
    <p>
        If a user has changed their password then a member of the
        administrators group must either reinstall the service or change
        the service credentials using Windows Service Manager. Due to
        Windows security policies, the autostart service cannot be
        installed for users with empty passwords.
      </p>
    <p>
        Finally, the user should define which VMs should be started at
        boot. The user should run the following command for every VM
        they wish to start at boot:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM name or UUID</varname> --autostart-enabled on</pre>
    <p>
        The user can remove a particular VM from the VMs starting at
        boot by running the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM name or UUID</varname> --autostart-enabled off</pre>
    <note>
      <p>
          On Windows hosts, starting VMs via the autostart service might
          cause some issues, as the virtual machines are starting within
          the same session as VBoxSVC. For more information see
          <xref href="vboxsvc-session-0.dita#vboxsvc-session-0"/>.
        </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
