<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="basic-unattended">
  <title>Unattended Guest Installation</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox can install a guest OS automatically. You only need
      to provide the installation medium and a few other parameters,
      such as the name of the default user.
    </p>
    <p>
      You can perform an unattended guest installation in the following
      ways:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Use the Create Virtual Machine
          wizard.</b> An optional step in the wizard enables you
          to configure unattended installation. You can specify the
          default user credentials for the guest OS and also whether to
          install the Guest Additions automatically. See
          <xref href="create-vm-wizard.dita#create-vm-wizard"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          During this step, Oracle VM VirtualBox scans the installation medium
          and changes certain parameters to ensure a seamless
          installation as a guest running on Oracle VM VirtualBox.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Use the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>
          commands.</b><xref href="unattended-guest-install-example.dita#unattended-guest-install-example"/> describes
          how to perform an unattended guest installation for an Oracle
          Linux guest.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      When you first start a VM that has been configured for unattended
      installation, the guest OS installation is performed
      automatically.
    </p>
    <p>
      The installation operation changes the boot device order to boot
      the virtual hard disk first and then the virtual DVD drive. If the
      virtual hard disk is empty prior to the automatic installation,
      the VM boots from the virtual DVD drive and begins the
      installation.
    </p>
    <p>
      If the virtual hard disk contains a bootable OS, the installation
      operation exits. In this case, change the boot device order
      manually by pressing F12 during the BIOS splash screen.
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
