<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="changetimesync">
  <title>Tuning the Guest Additions Time Synchronization Parameters</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Guest Additions ensure that the guest's
        system time is synchronized with the host time. There are
        several parameters which can be tuned. The parameters can be set
        for a specific VM using the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage guestproperty set <varname>VM-name</varname> "/VirtualBox/GuestAdd/VBoxService/<varname>property</varname>" <varname>value</varname>
                  </pre>
    <p><varname>property</varname> is one of the following:
      </p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><codeph>--timesync-interval</codeph>
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Specifies the interval at which to synchronize the time
              with the host. The default is 10000 ms (10 seconds).
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><codeph>--timesync-min-adjust</codeph>
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              The minimum absolute drift value measured in milliseconds
              to make adjustments for. The default is 1000 ms on OS/2
              and 100 ms elsewhere.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><codeph>--timesync-latency-factor</codeph>
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              The factor to multiply the time query latency with to
              calculate the dynamic minimum adjust time. The default is
              8 times, which means as follows:
            </p>
          <p>
              Measure the time it takes to determine the host time, the
              guest has to contact the VM host service which may take
              some time. Multiply this value by 8 and do an adjustment
              only if the time difference between host and guest is
              bigger than this value. Do not do any time adjustment
              otherwise.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><codeph>--timesync-max-latency</codeph>
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              The max host timer query latency to accept. The default is
              250 ms.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><codeph>--timesync-set-threshold</codeph>
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              The absolute drift threshold, given as milliseconds where
              to start setting the time instead of trying to smoothly
              adjust it. The default is 20 minutes.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><codeph>--timesync-set-start</codeph>
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Set the time when starting the time sync service.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt><codeph>--timesync-set-on-restore</codeph> 0|1
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Set the time after the VM was restored from a saved state
              when passing 1 as parameter. This is the default. Disable
              by passing 0. In the latter case, the time will be
              adjusted smoothly, which can take a long time.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>
        All these parameters can be specified as command line parameters
        to <codeph>VBoxService</codeph> as well.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
