<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="cloud-vm-new">
  <title>Creating a New Cloud VM</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>When you create a new cloud VM, a <i>new</i>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> instance is created and associated with the cloud VM. </p>
    <p>Perform the following steps to create a new cloud VM: </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>Click a cloud profile in the <b outputclass="bold">OCI</b> group. </p>
        <p>The cloud VMs for the selected cloud profile are displayed. </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>Select <b outputclass="bold">Group</b>, <b outputclass="bold">New Machine</b>. </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>Configure the following settings for the new cloud VM: </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Location:</b> The cloud service provider that will host the new instance. Select <b
                outputclass="bold"><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/></b>. </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Profile:</b> The cloud profile used to connect to the new instance. Select from the
              available cloud profiles. </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Source:</b> The image that the new instance is based on. Choose from the available
              images and boot volumes. </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>Change the <b outputclass="bold">Cloud Virtual Machine Settings</b> as required. You will likely need to
          change the display name, shape, and networking configuration. </p>
        <p>To add an SSH key to the instance, click the <b outputclass="bold">SSH Authorised Keys</b> field and paste
          the public key into the displayed dialog. </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>Click <b outputclass="bold">Finish</b> to create a new <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> instance
          using the selected image or boot volume. The new instance is started automatically. </p>
        <p>The new cloud VM is shown in the <b outputclass="bold">OCI</b> group in <ph
            conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/>. </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </body>
  
</topic>
