<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="cloud-using-cloud-networks">
  <title>Using a Cloud Network</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        A cloud network is a type of network that can be used for
        connections from a local VM to a remote Oracle Cloud Infrastructure cloud instance.
      </p>
    <p>
        To create and use a cloud network, do the following:
      </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
            Set up a virtual cloud network on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
          </p>
        <p>
            The following steps create and configure a virtual cloud
            network (VCN) on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. The VCN is used to tunnel network
            traffic across the cloud.
          </p>
        <ol>
          <li>
            <p>
                Ensure that you have a cloud profile for connecting to
                Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. See <xref href="cloud-create-cloud-profile.dita#cloud-create-cloud-profile"/>.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                Run the following <userinput>VBoxManage cloud</userinput>
                command:
              </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage cloud --provider="OCI" --profile="vbox-oci" network setup</pre>
            <p>
                where <codeph>vbox-oci</codeph> is the name of your
                cloud profile.
              </p>
            <p>
                Other options are available for the <userinput>VBoxManage
                cloud network setup</userinput> command, to enable you to
                configure details for the VCN. For example, you can
                configure the operating system used for the cloud
                gateway instance and the IP address range used by the
                tunneling network. See
                <xref href="man_VBoxManage-cloud.dita#vboxmanage-cloud"/>.
              </p>
            <p>
                For best results, use an Oracle Linux 7 instance for the
                cloud gateway. This is the default option.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Register the new cloud network with Oracle VM VirtualBox.
          </p>
        <p>
            Use the <b outputclass="bold">Cloud Networks</b> tab
            in the <b outputclass="bold">Network Manager</b>
            tool. See
            <xref href="network-manager-cloud-network-tab.dita#network-manager-cloud-network-tab"/>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Add cloud network adaptors to the local VMs that will use
            the cloud network. See <xref href="network_cloud.dita#network_cloud"/>.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </body>
  
</topic>
