<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="cloud-create-cloud-profile">
  <title>Creating a Cloud Profile</title>

  <body>
    <p>
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses a <i>cloud profile</i> to
        connect to <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/>. A cloud profile is a text file that contains
        details of your key files and Oracle Cloud Identifier (OCID)
        resource identifiers for your cloud account, such as the
        following:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Fingerprint of the public
            key.</b> To obtain the fingerprint, you can use the
            <userinput>openssl</userinput> command:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ openssl rsa -pubout -outform DER -in ~/.oci/oci_api_key.pem | openssl md5 -c</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Location of the private key on the
            client device.</b> Specify the full path to the
            private key.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">(Optional) Passphrase for the private
            key.</b> This is only required if the key is
            encrypted.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Region</b>. Shown on the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/>
            Console. Click
            <b outputclass="bold">Administration</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Tenancy Details</b>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Tenancy OCID.</b> Shown on the
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> Console. Click
            <b outputclass="bold">Administration</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Tenancy Details</b>.
          </p>
        <p>
            A link enables you to copy the Tenancy OCID.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Compartment OCID.</b> Shown on
            the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> Console. Click
            <b outputclass="bold">Identity</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Compartments</b>.
          </p>
        <p>
            A link enables you to copy the Compartment OCID.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">User OCID.</b> Shown on the
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> Console. Click
            <b outputclass="bold">Profile</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">User Settings</b>.
          </p>
        <p>
            A link enables you to copy the User OCID.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        You can create a cloud profile in the following ways:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Automatically, by using the <b outputclass="bold">Cloud
            Profile Manager</b>. See
            <xref href="cloud-using-cloud-profile-manager.dita#cloud-using-cloud-profile-manager"/>.
          </p>
        <p>
            The Cloud Profile Manager is a <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/> tool that enables
            you to create, edit, and manage cloud profiles for your
            cloud service accounts.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Automatically, by using the <userinput>VBoxManage cloudprofile</userinput> command. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage-cloudprofile.dita"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Manually, by creating an <filepath>oci_config</filepath>
            file in your <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> global configuration directory.
            For example, this is
            <filepath>$HOME/.config/VirtualBox/oci_config</filepath> on
            a Linux host.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Manually, by creating a <filepath>config</filepath> file in
            your <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> configuration directory. For example, this is
            <filepath>$HOME/.oci/config</filepath> on a Linux host.
          </p>
        <p>
            This is the same file that is used by the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> command line
            interface.
          </p>
        <p>
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> automatically uses the
            <filepath>config</filepath> file if no cloud profile file is
            present in your global configuration directory.
            Alternatively, you can import this file manually into the
            Cloud Profile Manager.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>

</topic>
