<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="cloud-export-oci-prepare-vm">
  <title>Preparing a VM for Export to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          Oracle Cloud Infrastructure provides the option to import a custom Linux image.
          Before an Oracle VM VirtualBox image can be exported to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, the
          custom image needs to be prepared to ensure that instances
          launched from the custom image can boot correctly and that
          network connections will work. This section provides advice on
          how to prepare a Linux image for export from Oracle VM VirtualBox.
        </p>
    <p>
          The following list shows some tasks to consider when preparing
          an Oracle Linux VM for export:
        </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Use DHCP for network
              addresses.</b> Configure the VM to use a DHCP
              server to allocate network addresses, rather than using a
              static IP address. The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure instance will then be
              allocated an IP address automatically.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Do not specify a MAC
              address.</b> The network interface configuration
              for the VM must not specify the MAC address.
            </p>
        <p>
              Remove the HWADDR setting from the
              <filepath>/etc/sysconfig/ifcfg-<varname>devicename</varname></filepath>
              network script.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Disable persistent network device
              naming rules.</b> This means that the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure
              instance will use the same network device names as the VM.
            </p>
        <ol>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Change the GRUB kernel parameters.
                </p>
            <p>
                  Add <codeph>net.ifnames=0</codeph> and
                  <codeph>biosdevname=0</codeph> as kernel parameter
                  values to the <codeph>GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX</codeph>
                  variable.
                </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Update the GRUB configuration.
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve"># grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg</pre>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Disable any <codeph>udev</codeph> rules for network
                  device naming.
                </p>
            <p>
                  For example, if an automated <codeph>udev</codeph>
                  rule exists for <codeph>net-persistence</codeph>:
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve"># cd /etc/udev/rules.d
# rm -f 70-persistent-net.rules
# ln -s /dev/null /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules</pre>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable the serial
              console.</b> This enables you to troubleshoot the
              instance when it is running on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
            </p>
        <ol>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Edit the <filepath>/etc/default/grub</filepath> file,
                  as follows:
                </p>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <p>
                      Remove the <codeph>resume</codeph> setting from
                      the kernel parameters. This setting slows down
                      boot time significantly.
                    </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                      Replace <codeph>GRUB_TERMINAL="gfxterm"</codeph>
                      with <codeph>GRUB_TERMINAL="console
                      serial"</codeph>. This configures use of the
                      serial console instead of a graphical terminal.
                    </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                      Add <codeph>GRUB_SERIAL_COMMAND="serial --unit=0
                      --speed=115200"</codeph>. This configures the
                      serial connection.
                    </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                      Add <codeph>console=tty0
                      console=ttyS0,115200</codeph> to the
                      <codeph>GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX</codeph> variable.
                      This adds the serial console to the Linux kernel
                      boot parameters.
                    </p>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Regenerate the GRUB configuration.
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve"># grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg</pre>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  To verify the changes, reboot the machine and run the
                  <userinput>dmesg</userinput> command to look for the
                  updated kernel parameters.
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve"># dmesg |grep console=ttyS0</pre>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable paravirtualized device
              support.</b> You do this by adding the
              <codeph>virtio</codeph> drivers to the
              <codeph>initrd</codeph> for the VM.
            </p>
        <ol>
          <li>
            <p>
                  This procedure works only on machines with a Linux
                  kernel of version 3.4 or later. Check that the VM is
                  running a supported kernel:
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve"># uname -a</pre>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Use the <codeph>dracut</codeph> tool to rebuild
                  <codeph>initrd</codeph>. Add the
                  <codeph>qemu</codeph> module, as follows:
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve"># dracut –-logfile /var/log/Dracut.log --force --add qemu</pre>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Verify that the <codeph>virtio</codeph> drivers are
                  now present in <codeph>initrd</codeph>.
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve"> # lsinitrd |grep virtio</pre>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
          For more information about importing a custom Linux image into
          Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, see also:
        </p>
    <p>
      <ph>https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/Tasks/importingcustomimagelinux.htm</ph>
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
