<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="config-vm-window-status-bar">
  <title>Configure VM Window Status Bar Entries</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        You can disable certain status bar items:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata "VM name"|global GUI/RestrictedStatusBarIndicators OPTION[,OPTION...]</pre>
    <p>
        where <codeph>OPTION</codeph> is one of the following
        keywords:
      </p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>HardDisks</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the hard disk icon in the VM window status
              bar. By default the hard disk icon is only shown if the VM
              configuration contains one or more hard disks.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>OpticalDisks</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the CD icon in the VM window status bar. By
              default the CD icon is only shown if the VM configuration
              contains one or more CD drives.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>FloppyDisks</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the floppy icon in the VM window status bar.
              By default the floppy icon is only shown if the VM
              configuration contains one or more floppy drives.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>Network</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the network icon in the VM window status bar.
              By default the network icon is only shown if the VM
              configuration contains one or more active network
              adapters.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>USB</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the USB icon in the status bar.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>SharedFolders</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the shared folders icon in the status bar.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>Capture</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the capture icon in the status bar.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>Features</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the CPU features icon in the status bar.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>Mouse</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the mouse icon in the status bar.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>Keyboard</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Do not show the keyboard icon in the status bar.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>
        This is a per-VM or global setting. Any combination of the above
        is allowed. If all options are specified, no icons are displayed
        in the status bar of the VM window. To restore the default
        behavior, use
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata "VM name"|global GUI/RestrictedStatusBarIndicators</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
