<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="configbasics">
  <title>Virtual Machine Configuration</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      When you select a virtual machine from the list in the VirtualBox
      Manager window, you will see a summary of that machine's settings
      on the right.
    </p>
    <p>
      Clicking on <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> displays a
      window, where you can configure many of the properties of the
      selected VM. But be careful when changing VM settings. It is
      possible to change all VM settings after installing a guest OS,
      but certain changes might prevent a guest OS from functioning
      correctly if done after installation.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        The <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> button is disabled
        while a VM is either in the Running or Saved state. This is
        because the <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window
        enables you to change fundamental characteristics of the virtual
        machine that is created for your guest OS. For example, the
        guest OS may not perform well if half of its memory is taken
        away. As a result, if the
        <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> button is disabled,
        shut down the current VM first.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> provides a wide range of parameters that can be
      changed for a virtual machine. The various settings that can be
      changed in the <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window
      are described in detail in <xref href="BasicConcepts.dita#BasicConcepts"/>. Even
      more parameters are available when using the
      <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command line interface. See
      <xref href="vboxmanage.dita#vboxmanage"/>.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
