<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="cpuhotplug">
  <title>CPU Hot-Plugging</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      With virtual machines running modern server operating systems,
      Oracle VM VirtualBox supports CPU hot-plugging.
    </p>
    <p>
      On a physical computer CPU hot-plugging would mean that a CPU can
      be added or removed while the machine is running. Oracle VM VirtualBox
      supports adding and removing of virtual CPUs while a virtual
      machine is running.
    </p>
    <p>
      CPU hot-plugging works only with guest operating systems that
      support the feature. So far this applies only to Linux and Windows
      Server. Windows supports only hot-add, while Linux supports
      hot-add and hot-remove. To use this feature with more than 8 CPUs,
      a 64-bit Linux guest is required.
    </p>
    <p>
      CPU hot-plugging is done using the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>
      command-line interface. First, hot-plugging needs to be enabled
      for a virtual machine:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --cpu-hotplug on</pre>
    <p>
      The <codeph>--cpus</codeph> option is used to specify the maximum
      number of CPUs that the virtual machine can have:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --cpus 8</pre>
    <p>
      When the VM is off, you can then add and remove virtual CPUs with
      the <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm --plug-cpu</userinput> and
      <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm --unplug-cpu</userinput> commands,
      which take the number of the virtual CPU as a parameter, as
      follows:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --plug-cpu 3
$ VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --unplug-cpu 3</pre>
    <p>
      Note that CPU 0 can never be removed.
    </p>
    <p>
      While the VM is running, CPUs can be added and removed with the
      <userinput>VBoxManage controlvm plugcpu</userinput> and
      <userinput>VBoxManage controlvm unplugcpu</userinput> commands
      instead, as follows:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage controlvm <varname>VM-name</varname> plugcpu 3
$ VBoxManage controlvm <varname>VM-name</varname> unplugcpu 3</pre>
    <p>
      See <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita">VBoxManage modifyvm</xref> and
      <xref href="vboxmanage-controlvm.dita">VBoxManage controlvm</xref> for details.
    </p>
    <p>
      With Linux guests, the following applies:
    </p>
    <p>
      To prevent ejection while the CPU is still used it has to be
      ejected from within the guest before. The Linux Guest Additions
      contain a service which receives hot-remove events and ejects the
      CPU. Also, after a CPU is added to the VM it is not automatically
      used by Linux. The Linux Guest Additions service will take care of
      that if installed. If not a CPU can be started with the following
      command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ echo 1 &gt; /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu&lt;id&gt;/online</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
