<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="create-vm-wizard-unattended-install">
  <title>Configure Unattended Guest OS Install</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>If you choose Unattended guest OS Installation, <ph
        conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> installs the OS on the new virtual machine
      (VM) automatically. You must supply certain configuration options to be used in the
      installation. </p>
    <p>See also <xref href="unattended-guest-install-example.dita#unattended-guest-install-example"
      /> for details of how to configure unattended installation from the command line. </p>
    <note>
      <p>You will not see these options if you selected the <b outputclass="bold">Skip Unattended
        Installation</b> option. </p></note><ol id="ol_ox5_xtw_4bc">
          <li>Enter the <b outputclass="bold">Username and Password</b> for a default user on the
            guest OS. </li>
          <li>
            <p>For Windows guests, enter the <b outputclass="bold">Product Key</b> supplied with Windows. </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Enter the <b outputclass="bold">Hostname</b> for the VM. By default, this is the same
              as the VM name.</p>
      </li>
      <li>
            <p>Enter the <b outputclass="bold">Domain Name</b> for the VM. </p>
          </li>
          <li>Select <b outputclass="bold">Install in Background</b> if you want to enable headless
            mode for the VM rather than using a graphical user interface. </li>
          <li>Unattended Guest Additions installation is available for some x86 guests. Select <b outputclass="bold">Guest Additions</b> if you would like <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> to install the Guest Additions after the OS. Download the Guest Additions installation ISO to the host, and select the file location.</li>
          <li>Click <b outputclass="bold">Next</b> to <xref href="create-vm-wizard-hardware.dita"/>.
          </li>
        </ol>
  </body>
  
</topic>
