<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="create-vm-wizard-unattended-examples">
  <title>Some Examples of Unattended Installation</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        To configure unattended installation, you typically just need to
        specify an ISO image in the <b outputclass="bold">Create Virtual
        Machine</b> wizard. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> then detects the OS
        type and the unattended installation process is done
        automatically when the wizard is completed. However, in some
        situations the installation may need be completed manually.
      </p>
    <p>
        The following list describes some common scenarios for
        unattended installation:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">OS type is detected
            automatically.</b> The following outcomes are
            possible:
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
                If unattended installation is supported for the selected
                ISO, the guest OS is installed automatically. No user
                input is required.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                If unattended installation is not supported for the
                selected ISO, the ISO image is inserted automatically
                into the DVD drive of the new VM. The guest OS
                installation must then be completed manually.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">OS type is not detected
            automatically.</b> You must configure
            <b outputclass="bold">Type</b> and
            <b outputclass="bold">Version</b> settings in the
            wizard.
          </p>
        <p>
            The ISO image is inserted automatically into the DVD drive
            of the new VM. The guest OS installation must then be
            completed manually.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Unattended Installation is
            disabled.</b> Users can disable unattended
            installation, by selecting the <b outputclass="bold">Skip
            Unattended Installation</b> check box on the initial
            wizard page.
          </p>
        <p>
            The ISO image is inserted automatically into the DVD drive
            of the new VM. The guest OS installation must then be
            completed manually.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        See also <xref href="basic-unattended.dita#basic-unattended"/> for details of how
        to perform unattended installation from the command line.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
