<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="efi">
  <title>Alternative Firmware (EFI)</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> includes experimental support for the Extensible
      Firmware Interface (EFI), which is an industry standard intended
      to replace the legacy BIOS as the primary interface for
      bootstrapping computers and certain system services later.
    </p>
    <p>
      By default, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses the BIOS firmware for virtual
      machines. To use EFI for a given virtual machine, you can enable
      EFI in the machine's <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b>
      window. See <xref href="settings-motherboard.dita#settings-motherboard"/>. Alternatively,
      use the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command line interface as
      follows:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --firmware efi</pre>
    <p>
      To switch back to using the BIOS:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --firmware bios</pre>
    <p>
      One notable user of EFI is Apple Mac OS X. More recent Linux
      versions and Windows releases, starting with Vista, also offer
      special versions that can be booted using EFI.
    </p>
    <p>
      Another possible use of EFI in <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is development and
      testing of EFI applications, without booting any OS.
    </p>
    <p>
      Note that the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> EFI support is experimental and will
      be enhanced as EFI matures and becomes more widespread. Mac OS X,
      Linux, and newer Windows guests are known to work fine. Windows 7
      guests are unable to boot with the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> EFI
      implementation.
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
