<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="emul-hardware">
  <title>Emulated Hardware</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> virtualizes nearly all hardware of the host.
      Depending on a VM's configuration, the guest will see the
      following virtual hardware:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Input devices.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          can emulate a standard PS/2 keyboard and mouse. These devices
          are supported by most guest OSes.
        </p>
        <p>
          In addition, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can provide virtual USB input
          devices to avoid having to capture mouse and keyboard, as
          described in <xref href="keyb_mouse_normal.dita#keyb_mouse_normal"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Graphics.</b> The default
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> graphics device for Windows guests is an SVGA
          device. For Linux guests, the default graphics device emulates
          a VMware SVGA graphics device. See
          <xref href="settings-screen.dita#settings-screen"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          For legacy guest OSes, a VGA-compatible graphics device is
          available.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Storage.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          emulates the most common types of hard disk controllers. See
          <xref href="harddiskcontrollers.dita#harddiskcontrollers"/>. Whereas supporting
          only one of these controllers would be enough for
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> by itself, this multitude of storage adapters
          is required for compatibility with other hypervisors. Windows
          is very selective about its boot devices, and migrating VMs
          between hypervisors is very difficult or impossible if the
          storage controllers are different.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Networking.</b> See
          <xref href="nichardware.dita#nichardware"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">USB.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> emulates
          these types of USB host controllers: xHCI, EHCI, and OHCI.
          While xHCI handles all USB transfer speeds, some legacy guest
          OSes may not support xHCI. Note that for some legacy Windows
          guests, third party drivers must be installed for xHCI
          support.
        </p>
        <p>
          Legacy guest OSes typically support OHCI and EHCI. These two
          controllers are needed because OHCI only handles USB low-speed
          and full-speed devices (both USB 1.x and 2.0), while EHCI only
          handles high-speed devices (USB 2.0 only).
        </p>
        <p>
          The emulated USB controllers do not communicate directly with
          devices on the host. Instead they communicate with a virtual
          USB layer which abstracts the USB protocol and enables the use
          of remote USB devices.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Audio.</b> See
          <xref href="settings-audio.dita#settings-audio"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
