<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="externalkernelmodules">
  <title>The Oracle VM VirtualBox Kernel Modules</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        In order to run other operating systems in virtual machines
        alongside your main operating system, Oracle VM VirtualBox needs to
        integrate very tightly with your system. To do this it installs
        a driver module called <userinput>vboxdrv</userinput> into the
        system kernel. The kernel is the part of the operating system
        which controls your processor and physical hardware. Without
        this kernel module, you can still use VirtualBox Manager to configure
        virtual machines, but they will not start.
      </p>
    <p>
        Network drivers called <userinput>vboxnetflt</userinput> and
        <userinput>vboxnetadp</userinput> are also installed. They enable
        virtual machines to make more use of your computer's network
        capabilities and are needed for any virtual machine networking
        beyond the basic NAT mode.
      </p>
    <p>
        Since distributing driver modules separately from the kernel is
        not something which Linux supports well, the Oracle VM VirtualBox
        install process creates the modules on the system where they
        will be used. This means that you may need to install some
        software packages from the distribution which are needed for the
        build process. Required packages may include the following:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            GNU compiler (GCC)
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            GNU Make (make)
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Kernel header files
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        Also ensure that all system updates have been installed and that
        your system is running the most up-to-date kernel for the
        distribution.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          The running kernel and the kernel header files must be updated
          to matching versions.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        The following list includes some details of the required files
        for some common distributions. Start by finding the version name
        of your kernel, using the command <userinput>uname -r</userinput> in
        a terminal. The list assumes that you have not changed too much
        from the original installation, in particular that you have not
        installed a different kernel type.
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            With Debian and Ubuntu-based distributions, you must install
            the correct version of the
            <filepath>linux-headers</filepath>, usually whichever of
            <filepath>linux-headers-generic</filepath>,
            <filepath>linux-headers-amd64</filepath>,
            <filepath>linux-headers-i686</filepath> or
            <filepath>linux-headers-i686-pae</filepath> best matches the
            kernel version name. Also, the
            <filepath>linux-kbuild</filepath> package if it exists.
            Basic Ubuntu releases should have the correct packages
            installed by default.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            On Fedora, Red Hat, Oracle Linux and many other RPM-based
            systems, the kernel version sometimes has a code of letters
            or a word close to the end of the version name. For example
            "uek" for the Oracle Unbreakable Enterprise Kernel or
            "default" or "desktop" for the standard kernels. In this
            case, the package name is
            <filepath>kernel-uek-devel</filepath> or equivalent. If
            there is no such code, it is usually
            <filepath>kernel-devel</filepath>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            On some SUSE and openSUSE Linux versions, you may need to
            install the <filepath>kernel-source</filepath> and
            <filepath>kernel-syms</filepath> packages.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        If you suspect that something has gone wrong with module
        installation, check that your system is set up as described
        above and try running the following command, as root:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">rcvboxdrv setup</pre>
  </body>
</topic>
