<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="features-overview">
  <title>Features Overview</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      The following is a brief outline of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>'s main
      features:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Portability.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          runs on a large number of 64-bit host operating systems. See
          <xref href="hostossupport.dita#hostossupport"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is a so-called <i>hosted</i>
          hypervisor, sometimes referred to as a <i>type
          2</i> hypervisor. Whereas a
          <i>bare-metal</i> or <i>type 1</i>
          hypervisor runs directly on the hardware, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          requires an existing OS to be installed. It can thus run
          alongside existing applications on that host.
        </p>
        <p>
          To a very large degree, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is functionally
          identical on all of the host platforms, and the same file and
          image formats are used. This enables you to run virtual
          machines created on one host on another host with a different
          host OS. For example, you can create a virtual machine on
          Windows and then run it on Linux.
        </p>
        <p>
          In addition, virtual machines can easily be imported and
          exported using the Open Virtualization Format (OVF), an
          industry standard created for this purpose. You can even
          import OVFs that were created with a different virtualization
          software. See <xref href="ovf.dita#ovf"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          For users of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/> the functionality extends to exporting and
          importing virtual machines to and from the cloud. This
          simplifies development of applications and deployment to the
          production environment. See
          <xref href="cloud-export-oci.dita#cloud-export-oci"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Guest Additions: shared folders,
          seamless windows, 3D virtualization.</b> The
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Guest Additions are software packages which can
          be installed <i>inside</i> of supported guest
          systems to improve their performance and to provide additional
          integration and communication with the host system. After
          installing the Guest Additions, a virtual machine will support
          automatic adjustment of video resolutions, seamless windows,
          accelerated 3D graphics and more. See
          <xref href="guestadditions.dita#guestadditions"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          In particular, Guest Additions provide for <i>shared
          folders</i>, which let you access files on the host
          system from within a guest machine. See
          <xref href="sharedfolders.dita#sharedfolders"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Comprehensive hardware
          support.</b> Among other features, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          supports the following:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Guest multiprocessing
              (SMP).</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can present up to 32
              virtual CPUs to each virtual machine, irrespective of how
              many CPU cores are physically present on your host.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">USB device support.</b>
              <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> implements a virtual USB controller and
              enables you to connect arbitrary USB devices to your
              virtual machines without having to install device-specific
              drivers on the host. USB support is not limited to certain
              device categories. See <xref href="settings-usb.dita#settings-usb"/>.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Hardware compatibility.</b>
              <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> virtualizes a vast array of virtual
              devices, among them many devices that are typically
              provided by other virtualization platforms. That includes
              IDE, SCSI, and SATA hard disk controllers, several virtual
              network cards and sound cards, virtual serial and parallel
              ports and an Input/Output Advanced Programmable Interrupt
              Controller (I/O APIC), which is found in many computer
              systems. This enables easy cloning of disk images from
              real machines and importing of third-party virtual
              machines into <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Full ACPI support.</b> The
              Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) is fully
              supported by <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. This enables easy cloning of
              disk images from real machines or third-party virtual
              machines into <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. With its unique
              <i>ACPI power status support</i>,
              <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can even report to ACPI-aware guest OSes
              the power status of the host. For mobile systems running
              on battery, the guest can thus enable energy saving and
              notify the user of the remaining power, for example in
              full screen modes.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Multiscreen resolutions.</b>
              <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> virtual machines support screen resolutions
              many times that of a physical screen, allowing them to be
              spread over a large number of screens attached to the host
              system.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Built-in iSCSI support.</b>
              This unique feature enables you to connect a virtual
              machine directly to an iSCSI storage server without going
              through the host system. The VM accesses the iSCSI target
              directly without the extra overhead that is required for
              virtualizing hard disks in container files. See
              <xref href="storage-iscsi.dita#storage-iscsi"/>.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">PXE Network boot.</b> The
              integrated virtual network cards of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> fully
              support remote booting using the Preboot Execution
              Environment (PXE).
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Multigeneration branched
          snapshots.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can save arbitrary
          snapshots of the state of the virtual machine. You can go back
          in time and revert the virtual machine to any such snapshot
          and start an alternative VM configuration from there,
          effectively creating a whole snapshot tree. See
          <xref href="snapshots.dita#snapshots"/>. You can create and delete
          snapshots while the virtual machine is running.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">VM groups.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          provides a groups feature that enables the user to organize
          and control virtual machines collectively, as well as
          individually. In addition to basic groups, it is also possible
          for any VM to be in more than one group, and for groups to be
          nested in a hierarchy. This means you can have groups of
          groups. In general, the operations that can be performed on
          groups are the same as those that can be applied to individual
          VMs: Start, Pause, Reset, Close (Save state, Send Shutdown,
          Poweroff), Discard Saved State, Show in File System, Sort.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Clean architecture and unprecedented
          modularity.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> has an extremely modular
          design with well-defined internal programming interfaces and a
          clean separation of client and server code. This makes it easy
          to control it from several interfaces at once. For example,
          you can start a VM simply by clicking on a button in the
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> graphical user interface and then control that
          machine from the command line, or even remotely. See
          <xref href="frontends.dita#frontends"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          Due to its modular architecture, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can also
          expose its full functionality and configurability through a
          comprehensive <b outputclass="bold">software development kit
          (SDK),</b> which enables integration of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          with other software systems. See
          <xref href="VirtualBoxAPI.dita"><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Programming Interfaces</xref>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Remote machine display.</b> The
          VirtualBox Remote Desktop Extension (VRDE) enables
          high-performance remote access to any running virtual machine.
          This extension supports the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)
          originally built into Microsoft Windows, with special
          additions for full client USB support.
        </p>
        <p>
          The VRDE does not rely on the RDP server that is built into
          Microsoft Windows. Instead, the VRDE is plugged directly into
          the virtualization layer. As a result, it works with guest
          OSes other than Windows, even in text mode, and does not
          require application support in the virtual machine either. The
          VRDE is described in detail in <xref href="vrde.dita">Remote Display (VRDP Support)</xref>.
        </p>
        <p>
          On top of this special capacity, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> offers you
          more unique features:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Extensible RDP
              authentication.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> already supports
              Winlogon on Windows and PAM on Linux for RDP
              authentication. In addition, it includes an easy-to-use
              SDK which enables you to create arbitrary interfaces for
              other methods of authentication. See
              <xref href="vbox-auth.dita">RDP Authentication</xref>.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">USB over RDP.</b> Using RDP
              virtual channel support, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> also enables you
              to connect arbitrary USB devices locally to a virtual
              machine which is running remotely on an <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> RDP
              server. See <xref href="usb-over-rdp.dita">Remote USB</xref>.
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
