<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="flush-level1-data-cache-mitigation">
  <title>Flushing the Level 1 Data Cache</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          This aims at removing potentially sensitive data from the
          level 1 data cache when running guest code. However, it is
          made difficult by hyper-threading setups sharing the level 1
          cache and thereby potentially letting the other thread in a
          pair refill the cache with data the user does not want the
          guest to see. In addition, flushing the level 1 data cache is
          usually not without performance side effects.
        </p>
    <p>
          Up to date CPU microcode is a prerequisite for the cache
          flushing mitigations. Some host OSes may install these
          automatically, though it has traditionally been a task best
          performed by the system firmware. So, please check with your
          system / mainboard manufacturer for the latest firmware
          update.
        </p>
    <p>
          We recommend disabling hyper threading on the host. This is
          traditionally done from the firmware setup, but some OSes also
          offers ways disable HT. In some cases it may be disabled by
          default, but please verify as the effectiveness of the
          mitigation depends on it.
        </p>
    <p>
          The default action taken by VirtualBox is to flush the level 1
          data cache when a thread is scheduled to execute guest code,
          rather than on each VM entry. This reduces the performance
          impact, while making the assumption that the host OS will not
          handle security sensitive data from interrupt handlers and
          similar without taking precautions.
        </p>
    <p>
          A more aggressive flushing option is provided via the
          <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm</userinput>
           <codeph>--l1d-flush-on-vm-entry</codeph> option. When enabled
          the level 1 data cache will be flushed on every VM entry. The
          performance impact is greater than with the default option,
          though this of course depends on the workload. Workloads
          producing a lot of VM exits (like networking, VGA access, and
          similiar) will probably be most impacted.
        </p>
    <p>
          For users not concerned by this security issue, the default
          mitigation can be disabled using the <userinput>VBoxManage
          modifyvm <varname>name</varname> --l1d-flush-on-sched off</userinput> command.
        </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
