<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="frontends">
  <title>Alternative Front-Ends</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      As briefly mentioned in <xref href="features-overview.dita#features-overview"/>,
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> has a very flexible internal design that enables
      you to use multiple interfaces to control the same virtual
      machines. For example, you can start a virtual machine with the
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/> window and then stop it from the command line. With
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>'s support for the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP),
      you can even run virtual machines remotely on a headless server
      and have all the graphical output redirected over the network.
    </p>
    <p>
      The following front-ends are shipped in the standard
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> package:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">VirtualBox.</b> This is the
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/>, a graphical user interface that uses the Qt
          toolkit. This interface is described throughout this manual.
          While this is the simplest and easiest front-end to use, some
          of the more advanced <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> features are not included.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">VBoxManage.</b> A command-line
          interface for automated and detailed control of every aspect
          of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage.dita#vboxmanage"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">VBoxHeadless.</b> A front-end
          that produces no visible output on the host at all, but can
          act as a RDP server if the VirtualBox Remote Desktop Extension
          (VRDE) is installed and enabled for the VM. As opposed to the
          other graphical interfaces, the headless front-end requires no
          graphics support. This is useful, for example, if you want to
          host your virtual machines on a headless Linux server that has
          no X Window system installed. See
          <xref href="vboxheadless.dita">VBoxHeadless, the Remote Desktop Server</xref>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      If the above front-ends still do not satisfy your particular
      needs, it is possible to create yet another front-end to the
      complex virtualization engine that is the core of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>,
      as the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> core neatly exposes all of its features in a
      clean API. See <xref href="VirtualBoxAPI.dita"><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Programming Interfaces</xref>.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
