<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="gimdebughyperv">
  <title>Hyper-V Debug Options</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        All of the options listed below are optional, and thus the
        default value specified will be used when the corresponding
        key-value pair is not specified.
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Key:
            <b outputclass="bold"><codeph>enabled</codeph></b>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Value: <codeph>0</codeph> or <codeph>1</codeph>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Default: <codeph>0</codeph>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Specify <codeph>1</codeph> to enable the Hyper-V debug
            interface. If this key-value pair is not specified or the
            value is not <codeph>1</codeph>, the Hyper-V debug
            interface is disabled regardless of other key-value pairs
            being present.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Key:
            <b outputclass="bold"><codeph>address</codeph></b>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Value: IPv4 address
          </p>
        <p>
            Default: 127.0.0.1
          </p>
        <p>
            Specify the IPv4 address where the remote debugger is
            connected.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Key:
            <b outputclass="bold"><codeph>port</codeph></b>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Value: UDP port number
          </p>
        <p>
            Default: 50000
          </p>
        <p>
            Specify the UDP port number where the remote debugger is
            connected.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Key:
            <b outputclass="bold"><codeph>vendor</codeph></b>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Value: Hyper-V vendor signature reported by CPUID to the
            guest
          </p>
        <p>
            Default: When debugging is enabled: <codeph>Microsoft
            Hv</codeph>, otherwise: <codeph>VBoxVBoxVBox</codeph>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Specify the Hyper-V vendor signature which is exposed to the
            guest by CPUID. For debugging Microsoft Windows guests, it
            is required the hypervisor reports the Microsoft vendor.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Key:
            <b outputclass="bold"><codeph>hypercallinterface</codeph></b>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Value: <codeph>0</codeph> or <codeph>1</codeph>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Default: <codeph>0</codeph>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Specify whether hypercalls should be suggested for
            initiating debug data transfers between host and guest
            rather than MSRs when requested by the guest.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Key: <b outputclass="bold"><codeph>vsinterface</codeph></b>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Value: <codeph>0</codeph> or <codeph>1</codeph>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Default: When debugging is enabled, <codeph>1</codeph>,
            otherwise <codeph>0</codeph>
                        </p>
        <p>
            Specify whether to expose the VS#1 virtualization service
            interface to the guest. This interface is required for
            debugging Microsoft Windows 10 32-bit guests, but is
            optional for other Windows versions.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
