<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="gimdebughyperv-windows-setup">
  <title>Setting up Windows Guests for Debugging with the Hyper-V
          Paravirtualization Provider</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          Windows supports debugging over a serial cable, USB, IEEE 1394
          Firewire, and Ethernet. USB and IEEE 1394 are not applicable
          for virtual machines, and Ethernet requires Windows 8 or
          later. While a serial connection is universally usable, it is
          slow.
        </p>
    <p>
          Debugging using the Hyper-V debug transport, supported on
          Windows Vista and later, offers significant benefits. It
          provides excellent performance due to direct host-to-guest
          transfers, it is easy to set up and requires minimal support
          from the hypervisor. It can be used with the debugger running
          on the same host as the VM or with the debugger and VM on
          separate machines connected over a network.
        </p>
    <p>
      <b outputclass="bold">Prerequisites</b>
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
              A VM configured for Hyper-V paravirtualization running a
              Windows Vista or newer Windows guest. You can check the
              effective paravirtualization provider for your VM with the
              output of the following <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>
              command:
            </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage showvminfo <varname>VM-name</varname>
                           </pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              A sufficiently up-to-date version of the Microsoft WinDbg
              debugger required to debug the version of Windows in your
              VM.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              While Windows 8 and newer Windows guests ship with Hyper-V
              debug support, Windows 7 and Vista do not. To use Hyper-V
              debugging with a Windows 7 or Vista guest, copy the file
              <filepath>kdvm.dll</filepath> from a Windows 8.0
              installation. This file is typically located in
              <filepath>C:\Windows\System32</filepath>. Copy it to the
              same location in your Windows 7/Vista guest. Make sure you
              copy the 32-bit or 64-bit version of the DLL which matches
              your guest OS.
            </p>
        <note>
          <p>
                Only Windows 8.0 ships <filepath>kdvm.dll</filepath>.
                Windows 8.1 and newer Windows versions do not.
              </p>
        </note>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      <b outputclass="bold">VM and Guest Configuration</b>
    </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
              Power off the VM.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              Enable the debug options with the following
              <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command:
            </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --paravirt-debug "enabled=1"</pre>
        <p>
              The above command assumes your debugger will connect to
              your host machine on UDP port 50000. However, if you need
              to run the debugger on a remote machine you may specify
              the remote address and port here. For example:
            </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> \
--paravirt-debug "enabled=1,address=192.168.32.1,port=55000"</pre>
        <p>
              See <xref href="gimdebughyperv.dita#gimdebughyperv"/> for the complete set
              of options.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              Start the VM.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              In the guest, start an elevated command prompt and execute
              the following commands:
            </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
                  For a Windows 8 or newer Windows guest:
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve">bcdedit /dbgsettings net hostip:5.5.5.5 port:50000 key:1.2.3.4</pre>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  For a Windows 7 or Vista guest:
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve">bcdedit /set loadoptions host_ip=5.5.5.5,host_port=50000,encryption_key=1.2.3.4</pre>
            <pre xml:space="preserve">bcdedit /set dbgtransport kdvm.dll</pre>
            <p>
                  The IP address and port in the
                  <userinput>bcdedit</userinput> command are ignored when
                  using the Hyper-V debug transport. Any valid IP and a
                  port number greater than 49151 and lower than 65536
                  can be entered.
                </p>
            <p>
                  The encryption key in the <userinput>bcdedit</userinput>
                  command is relevant and must be valid. The key
                  "1.2.3.4" used in the above example is valid and may
                  be used if security is not a concern. If you do not
                  specify any encryption key, <userinput>bcdedit</userinput>
                  will generate one for you and you will need to copy
                  this key to later enter in Microsoft WinDbg on the
                  remote end. This encryption key is used to encrypt the
                  debug data exchanged between Windows and the debugger.
                </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  Run one or more of the following commands to enable
                  debugging for the appropriate phase or component of
                  your Windows guest:
                </p>
            <pre xml:space="preserve">bcdedit /set debug on</pre>
            <pre xml:space="preserve">bcdedit /set bootdebug on</pre>
            <pre xml:space="preserve">bcdedit /set {bootmgr} bootdebug on</pre>
            <p>
                  Please note that the <userinput>bootdebug</userinput>
                  options are only effective on Windows 8 or newer when
                  using the Hyper-V debug transport. Refer to Microsoft
                  Windows documentation for detailed explanation of
                  <userinput>bcdedit</userinput> options.
                </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              Start Microsoft WinDbg on your host machine or remote
              host.
            </p>
        <p>
              From the <b outputclass="bold">File</b> menu,
              select <b outputclass="bold">Kernel Debug</b>. On
              the <b outputclass="bold">NET</b> tab, specify the
              UDP port number you used in the
              <codeph>paravirtdebug</codeph> options. If you did not
              specify any, leave it as 50000. Ensure that the UDP port
              is not blocked by a firewall or other security software.
            </p>
        <p>
              In the <b outputclass="bold">Key</b> field, enter
              <codeph>1.2.3.4</codeph> or the encryption key from the
              <userinput>bcdedit</userinput> command in your Windows guest.
            </p>
        <p>
              Click <b outputclass="bold">OK</b> to start
              listening for connections. Microsoft WinDbg typically
              shows a Waiting to Reconnect message during this phase.
            </p>
        <p>
              Alternatively, to directly start a debug session, run
              WinDbg from the command line as follows :
            </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">windbg.exe -k net:port=50000,key=1.2.3.4</pre>
        <p>
              See the WinDbg documentation for the complete command line
              syntax.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              Reboot your Windows guest and it should then connect as a
              debuggee with Microsoft WinDbg.
            </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </body>
  
</topic>
