<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestadd-pagefusion">
  <title>Page Fusion</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Whereas memory ballooning simply reduces the amount of RAM that
        is available to a VM, Page Fusion works differently. It avoids
        memory duplication between several similar running VMs.
      </p>
    <p>
        In a server environment running several similar VMs on the same
        host, lots of memory pages are identical. For example, if the
        VMs are using identical operating systems. Oracle VM VirtualBox's Page
        Fusion technology can efficiently identify these identical
        memory pages and share them between multiple VMs.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          Oracle VM VirtualBox supports Page Fusion only on 64-bit hosts, and
          it is not supported on macOS hosts. Page Fusion currently
          works only with Windows 2000 and later guests.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        The more similar the VMs on a given host are, the more
        efficiently Page Fusion can reduce the amount of host memory
        that is in use. It therefore works best if all VMs on a host run
        identical operating systems. Instead of having a complete copy
        of each operating system in each VM, Page Fusion identifies the
        identical memory pages in use by these operating systems and
        eliminates the duplicates, sharing host memory between several
        machines. This is called <i>deduplication</i>. If
        a VM tries to modify a page that has been shared with other VMs,
        a new page is allocated again for that VM with a copy of the
        shared page. This is called <i>copy on write</i>.
        All this is fully transparent to the virtual machine.
      </p>
    <p>
        You may be familiar with this kind of memory overcommitment from
        other hypervisor products, which call this feature
        <i>page sharing</i> or <i>same page
        merging</i>. However, Page Fusion differs significantly
        from those other solutions, whose approaches have several
        drawbacks:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Traditional hypervisors scan <i>all</i> guest
            memory and compute checksums, also called hashes, for every
            single memory page. Then, they look for pages with identical
            hashes and compare the entire content of those pages. If two
            pages produce the same hash, it is very likely that the
            pages are identical in content. This process can take rather
            long, especially if the system is not idling. As a result,
            the additional memory only becomes available after a
            significant amount of time, such as hours or sometimes days.
            Even worse, this kind of page sharing algorithm generally
            consumes significant CPU resources and increases the
            virtualization overhead by 10 to 20%.
          </p>
        <p>
            Page Fusion in Oracle VM VirtualBox uses logic in the
            Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions to quickly identify memory
            cells that are most likely identical across VMs. It can
            therefore achieve most of the possible savings of page
            sharing almost immediately and with almost no overhead.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Page Fusion is also much less likely to be confused by
            identical memory that it will eliminate, just to learn
            seconds later that the memory will now change and having to
            perform a highly expensive and often service-disrupting
            reallocation.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        At this time, Page Fusion can only be controlled with
        <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>, and only while a VM is shut down.
        To enable Page Fusion for a VM, use the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --page-fusion on</pre>
    <p>
        You can observe Page Fusion operation using some metrics.
        <codeph>RAM/VMM/Shared</codeph> shows the total amount of
        fused pages, whereas the per-VM metric
        <codeph>Guest/RAM/Usage/Shared</codeph> will return the amount
        of fused memory for a given VM. See
        <xref href="vboxmanage-metrics.dita"/> for information on how to
        query metrics.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          Enabling Page Fusion might indirectly increase the chances for
          malicious guests to successfully attack other VMs running on
          the same host. See <xref href="pot-insecure.dita">Potentially Insecure Operations</xref>.
        </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
