<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestadd-clipboard">
  <title>Clipboard</title>
  
  <body>
    <p><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> enables you to copy clipboard content from the host to the
      guest, and vice versa. For this to work the latest version of the Guest Additions must be installed on the
      guest.</p>
    <p>For security reasons drag and drop can be configured at runtime on a per-VM basis either using the <b
        outputclass="bold">Shared Clipboard</b> menu item in the <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b> menu of the virtual
      machine, or the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command. </p>
    <p>The following shared clipboard settings are available: </p>
    <ul id="ul_onq_r24_hcc">
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Disabled</b>. Disables the copy feature entirely. This is the default when creating a
          new VM. </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Host To Guest</b>. Enables text copy operations from the host to the guest only. </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Guest To Host</b>. Enables text copy operations from the guest to the host only. </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Bidirectional</b>. Enables text copy operations in both directions: from the host to
          the guest, and from the guest to the host. </p>
      </li>
      <li><b>Enable Clipboard File Transfers</b>. Allows files, in addition to text, to be copied to or from the VM.
      </li>
    </ul>    
    <p>To use the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command to control the current clipboard mode, see <xref
        href="vboxmanage.dita#vboxmanage"/>. The <userinput>modifyvm</userinput> and <userinput>controlvm</userinput>
      commands enable setting of a VM's current clipboard mode from the command line.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
