<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestadd-balloon">
  <title>Memory Ballooning</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The Guest Additions can change the amount of host memory that a
        VM uses, while the machine is running. Because of how this is
        implemented, this feature is called <i>memory
        ballooning</i>.
      </p>
    <note>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>
              <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> supports memory ballooning only on 64-bit
              hosts. It is not supported on macOS hosts.
            </p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>
              Memory ballooning does not work well with large pages
              enabled. To turn off large pages support for a VM, run
              <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>vmname</varname> --large-pages
              off</userinput>
                           </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </note>
    <p>
        Normally, to change the amount of memory allocated to a virtual
        machine, you have to shut down the virtual machine entirely and
        modify its settings. With memory ballooning, memory that was
        allocated for a virtual machine can be given to another virtual
        machine without having to shut the machine down.
      </p>
    <p>
        When memory ballooning is requested, the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Guest
        Additions, which run inside the guest, allocate physical memory
        from the guest operating system on the kernel level and lock
        this memory down in the guest. This ensures that the guest will
        not use that memory any longer. No guest applications can
        allocate it, and the guest kernel will not use it either.
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can then reuse this memory and give it to another
        virtual machine.
      </p>
    <p>
        The memory made available through the ballooning mechanism is
        only available for reuse by <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. It is
        <i>not</i> returned as free memory to the host.
        Requesting balloon memory from a running guest will therefore
        not increase the amount of free, unallocated memory on the host.
        Effectively, memory ballooning is therefore a memory
        overcommitment mechanism for multiple virtual machines while
        they are running. This can be useful to temporarily start
        another machine, or in more complicated environments, for
        sophisticated memory management of many virtual machines that
        may be running in parallel depending on how memory is used by
        the guests.
      </p>
    <p>
        At this time, memory ballooning is only supported through
        <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>. Use the following command to
        increase or decrease the size of the memory balloon within a
        running virtual machine that has Guest Additions installed:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage controlvm "VM name" guestmemoryballoon n</pre>
    <p>
        where <varname>VM name</varname> is the name or UUID of
        the virtual machine in question and <varname>n</varname>
        is the amount of memory to allocate from the guest in megabytes.
        See <xref href="vboxmanage-controlvm.dita"/>.
      </p>
    <p>
        You can also set a default balloon that will automatically be
        requested from the VM every time after it has started up with
        the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --guest-memory-balloon n</pre>
    <p>
        By default, no balloon memory is allocated. This is a VM
        setting, like other <userinput>modifyvm</userinput> settings, and
        therefore can only be set while the machine is shut down. See
        <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita"/>.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
