<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestadd-resizing-linux">
  <title>X11/Wayland Desktop Environments</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The Guest Additions provide services for controlling the guest
        system's monitor topology. Monitor topology means the resolution
        of each virtual monitor and its state (disabled/enabled). The
        resolution of a virtual monitor can be modified from the host
        side either by resizing the window that hosts the virtual
        monitor, by using the <b outputclass="bold">View</b> menu
        or the <userinput>VBoxManage controlvm
        <varname>vmname</varname> setscreenlayout</userinput>
        command. On guest operating systems with X11/Wayland desktops
        this is put into effect by either of the following two services:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">        VBoxClient --vmsvga
        VBoxDRMClient
      </pre>
    <p>
        The following are some details about guest screen resolution
        control functionality:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            On X11/Wayland desktops the resizing service is started
            during desktop session initialization, that is desktop
            login. On X11 desktops <codeph>VBoxClient --vmsvga</codeph>
            handles screen topology through the RandR extension. On
            Wayland clients <codeph>VBoxDRMClient</codeph> is used. The
            decision is made automatically at each desktop session
            start.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            On 32-bit guest operating systems
            <userinput>VBoxDRMClient</userinput> is always used, in order to
            work around bugs.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Since the monitor topology control services are initialized
            during the desktop session start, it is impossible to
            control the monitor resolution of display managers such as
            GDM or LightDM. This default behavior can be changed by
            setting the guest property
            <codeph>/VirtualBox/GuestAdd/DRMResize</codeph> of the
            virtual machine to any value. See
            <xref href="guestadd-guestprops.dita#guestadd-guestprops"/> for details of how to
            update guest properties. When this guest property is set
            then <userinput>VBoxDRMClient</userinput> is started during the
            guest OS boot and stays active all the time, for both the
            display manager login screen and the desktop session.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
</topic>
