<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestxorgsetup">
  <title>Guest Graphics and Mouse Driver Setup in Depth</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        This section assumes that you are familiar with configuring the
        X.Org server using xorg.conf and optionally the newer mechanisms
        using hal or udev and xorg.conf.d. If not you can learn about
        them by studying the documentation which comes with X.Org.
      </p>
    <p>
        The Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions includes drivers for X.Org.
        By default these drivers are in the following directory:
      </p>
    <p>
      <filepath>/opt/VBoxGuestAdditions-<varname>version</varname>/other/</filepath>
    </p>
    <p>
        The correct versions for the X server are symbolically linked
        into the X.Org driver directories.
      </p>
    <p>
        For graphics integration to work correctly, the X server must
        load the <codeph>vboxvideo</codeph> driver. Many recent X
        server versions look for it automatically if they see that they
        are running in Oracle VM VirtualBox. For an optimal user experience,
        the guest kernel drivers must be loaded and the Guest Additions
        tool <userinput>VBoxClient</userinput> must be running as a client
        in the X session.
      </p>
    <p>
        For mouse integration to work correctly, the guest kernel
        drivers must be loaded. In addition, for legacy X servers the
        correct <codeph>vboxmouse</codeph> driver must be loaded and
        associated with <filepath>/dev/mouse</filepath> or
        <filepath>/dev/psaux</filepath>. For most guests, a driver for a
        PS/2 mouse must be loaded and the correct vboxmouse driver must
        be associated with <filepath>/dev/vboxguest</filepath>.
      </p>
    <p>
        The Oracle VM VirtualBox guest graphics driver can use any graphics
        configuration for which the virtual resolution fits into the
        virtual video memory allocated to the virtual machine, minus a
        small amount used by the guest driver, as described in
        <xref href="settings-display.dita">Display Settings</xref>. The driver will offer a
        range of standard modes at least up to the default guest
        resolution for all active guest monitors. The default mode can
        be changed by setting the output property VBOX_MODE to
        "&lt;width&gt;x&lt;height&gt;" for any guest monitor. When
        VBoxClient and the kernel drivers are active this is done
        automatically when the host requests a mode change. The driver
        for older versions can only receive new modes by querying the
        host for requests at regular intervals.
      </p>
    <p>
        With legacy X Servers before version 1.3, you can also add your
        own modes to the X server configuration file. Add them to the
        "Modes" list in the "Display" subsection of the "Screen"
        section. For example, the following section has a custom
        2048x800 resolution mode added:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">Section "Screen"
        Identifier    "Default Screen"
        Device        "VirtualBox graphics card"
        Monitor       "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth  24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth         24
                Modes         "2048x800" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
