<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestadd-intro">
  <title>Introduction to Guest Additions</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      As mentioned in <xref href="virtintro.dita#virtintro"/>, the Guest Additions
      are designed to be installed <i>inside</i> a virtual
      machine after the guest operating system has been installed. They
      consist of device drivers and system applications that optimize
      the guest operating system for better performance and usability.
      See <xref href="guestossupport.dita#guestossupport"/> for details on what guest
      operating systems are fully supported with Guest Additions by
      Oracle VM VirtualBox.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions for all supported guest
      operating systems are provided as a single CD-ROM image file which
      is called <filepath>VBoxGuestAdditions.iso</filepath>. This image
      file is located in the installation directory of Oracle VM VirtualBox.
      To install the Guest Additions for a particular VM, you mount this
      ISO file in your VM as a virtual CD-ROM and install from there.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Guest Additions offer the following features:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Mouse pointer integration</b>. To
          overcome the limitations for mouse support described in
          <xref href="keyb_mouse_normal.dita#keyb_mouse_normal"/>, this feature provides
          you with seamless mouse support. You will only have one mouse
          pointer and pressing the Host key is no longer required to
          <i>free</i> the mouse from being captured by the
          guest OS. To make this work, a special mouse driver is
          installed in the guest that communicates with the physical
          mouse driver on your host and moves the guest mouse pointer
          accordingly.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Shared folders.</b> These provide
          an easy way to exchange files between the host and the guest.
          Much like ordinary Windows network shares, you can tell
          Oracle VM VirtualBox to treat a certain host directory as a shared
          folder, and Oracle VM VirtualBox will make it available to the guest
          operating system as a network share, irrespective of whether
          the guest actually has a network. See
          <xref href="sharedfolders.dita#sharedfolders"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Better video support.</b> While
          the virtual graphics card which Oracle VM VirtualBox emulates for
          any guest operating system provides all the basic features,
          the custom video drivers that are installed with the Guest
          Additions provide you with extra high and non-standard video
          modes, as well as accelerated video performance.
        </p>
        <p>
          In addition, with Windows, Linux, and Oracle Solaris guests,
          you can resize the virtual machine's window if the Guest
          Additions are installed. The video resolution in the guest
          will be automatically adjusted, as if you had manually entered
          an arbitrary resolution in the guest's
          <b outputclass="bold">Display</b> settings. See
          <xref href="intro-resize-window.dita#intro-resize-window"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          If the Guest Additions are installed, 3D graphics and 2D video
          for guest applications can be accelerated. See
          <xref href="guestadd-video.dita#guestadd-video"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Seamless windows.</b> With this
          feature, the individual windows that are displayed on the
          desktop of the virtual machine can be mapped on the host's
          desktop, as if the underlying application was actually running
          on the host. See <xref href="seamlesswindows.dita#seamlesswindows"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Generic host/guest communication
          channels.</b> The Guest Additions enable you to control
          and monitor guest execution. The <i>guest
          properties</i> provide a generic string-based mechanism
          to exchange data bits between a guest and a host, some of
          which have special meanings for controlling and monitoring the
          guest. See <xref href="guestadd-guestprops.dita#guestadd-guestprops"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          Additionally, applications can be started in a guest from the
          host. See <xref href="guestadd-guestcontrol.dita#guestadd-guestcontrol"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Time synchronization.</b> With
          the Guest Additions installed, Oracle VM VirtualBox can ensure that
          the guest's system time is better synchronized with that of
          the host.
        </p>
        <p>
          For various reasons, the time in the guest might run at a
          slightly different rate than the time on the host. The host
          could be receiving updates through NTP and its own time might
          not run linearly. A VM could also be paused, which stops the
          flow of time in the guest for a shorter or longer period of
          time. When the wall clock time between the guest and host only
          differs slightly, the time synchronization service attempts to
          gradually and smoothly adjust the guest time in small
          increments to either catch up or lose time. When the
          difference is too great, for example if a VM paused for hours
          or restored from saved state, the guest time is changed
          immediately, without a gradual adjustment.
        </p>
        <p>
          The Guest Additions will resynchronize the time regularly. See
          <xref href="changetimesync.dita">Tuning the Guest Additions Time Synchronization Parameters</xref> for how to configure the
          parameters of the time synchronization mechanism.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Shared clipboard.</b> With the
          Guest Additions installed, the clipboard of the guest
          operating system can optionally be shared with your host
          operating system. See <xref href="generalsettings.dita"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Automated logins.</b> Also called
          credentials passing. See <xref href="autologon.dita">Automated Guest Logins</xref>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Each version of Oracle VM VirtualBox, even minor releases, ship with
      their own version of the Guest Additions. While the interfaces
      through which the Oracle VM VirtualBox core communicates with the Guest
      Additions are kept stable so that Guest Additions already
      installed in a VM should continue to work when Oracle VM VirtualBox is
      upgraded on the host, for best results, it is recommended to keep
      the Guest Additions at the same version.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Windows and Linux Guest Additions therefore check
      automatically whether they have to be updated. If the host is
      running a newer Oracle VM VirtualBox version than the Guest Additions, a
      notification with further instructions is displayed in the guest.
    </p>
    <p>
      To disable this update check for the Guest Additions of a given
      virtual machine, set the value of its
      <codeph>/VirtualBox/GuestAdd/CheckHostVersion</codeph> guest
      property to <codeph>0</codeph>. See
      <xref href="guestadd-guestprops.dita#guestadd-guestprops"/>.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
