<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestadd-3d">
  <title>Hardware 3D Acceleration (OpenGL and Direct3D 8/9)</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions contain experimental hardware
        3D support for Windows, Linux, and Oracle Solaris guests.
      </p>
    <p>
        With this feature, if an application inside your virtual machine
        uses 3D features through the OpenGL or Direct3D 8/9 programming
        interfaces, instead of emulating them in software, which would
        be slow, Oracle VM VirtualBox will attempt to use your host's 3D
        hardware. This works for all supported host platforms, provided
        that your host operating system can make use of your accelerated
        3D hardware in the first place.
      </p>
    <p>
        The 3D acceleration feature currently has the following
        preconditions:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            It is only available for certain Windows, Linux, and Oracle
            Solaris guests. In particular:
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
                3D acceleration with Windows guests requires Windows
                2000 or later. Apart from on Windows 2000 guests, both
                OpenGL and Direct3D 8/9 are supported on an experimental
                basis.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                OpenGL on Linux requires kernel 2.6.27 or later, as well
                as X.org server version 1.5 or later. Ubuntu 10.10 and
                Fedora 14 have been tested and confirmed as working.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                OpenGL on Oracle Solaris guests requires X.org server
                version 1.5 or later.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            The Guest Additions must be installed.
          </p>
        <note>
          <p>
              For the basic Direct3D acceleration to work in a Windows
              Guest, Oracle VM VirtualBox needs to replace Windows system
              files in the virtual machine. As a result, the Guest
              Additions installation program offers Direct3D
              acceleration as an option that must be explicitly enabled.
              Also, you must install the Guest Additions in Safe Mode.
              This does <i>not</i> apply to the WDDM
              Direct3D video driver available for Windows Vista and
              later. See <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref> for details.
            </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Because 3D support is still experimental at this time, it is
            disabled by default and must be <i>manually
            enabled</i> in the VM settings. See
            <xref href="settings-display.dita#settings-display"/>.
          </p>
        <note>
          <p>
              Untrusted guest systems should not be allowed to use the
              3D acceleration features of Oracle VM VirtualBox, just as
              untrusted host software should not be allowed to use 3D
              acceleration. Drivers for 3D hardware are generally too
              complex to be made properly secure and any software which
              is allowed to access them may be able to compromise the
              operating system running them. In addition, enabling 3D
              acceleration gives the guest direct access to a large body
              of additional program code in the Oracle VM VirtualBox host
              process which it might conceivably be able to use to crash
              the virtual machine.
            </p>
        </note>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        To enable Aero theme support, the Oracle VM VirtualBox WDDM video
        driver must be installed, which is available with the Guest
        Additions installation. The WDDM driver is not installed by
        default for Vista and Windows 7 guests and must be
        <i>manually selected</i> in the Guest Additions
        installer by clicking <b outputclass="bold">No</b> in the
        <b outputclass="bold">Would You Like to Install Basic Direct3D
        Support</b> dialog displayed when the Direct3D feature is
        selected.
      </p>
    <p>
        The Aero theme is not enabled by default on Windows. See your
        Windows platform documentation for details of how to enable the
        Aero theme.
      </p>
    <p>
        Technically, Oracle VM VirtualBox implements 3D acceleration by
        installing an additional hardware 3D driver inside the guest
        when the Guest Additions are installed. This driver acts as a
        hardware 3D driver and reports to the guest operating system
        that the virtual hardware is capable of 3D hardware
        acceleration. When an application in the guest then requests
        hardware acceleration through the OpenGL or Direct3D programming
        interfaces, these are sent to the host through a special
        communication tunnel implemented by Oracle VM VirtualBox. The
        <i>host</i> then performs the requested 3D
        operation using the host's programming interfaces.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
