<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="harddiskcontrollers">
  <title>Hard Disk Controllers</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      In a computing device, hard disks and CD/DVD drives are connected
      to a device called a hard disk controller, which drives hard disk
      operation and data transfers. Oracle VM VirtualBox can emulate the most
      common types of hard disk controllers typically found in computing
      devices: IDE, SATA (AHCI), SCSI, SAS, USB-based, NVMe and
      virtio-scsi mass storage devices.
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">IDE (ATA)</b> controllers are a
          backwards-compatible yet very advanced extension of the disk
          controller in the IBM PC/AT (1984). Initially, this interface
          worked only with hard disks, but was later extended to also
          support CD-ROM drives and other types of removable media. In
          physical PCs, this standard uses flat ribbon parallel cables
          with 40 or 80 wires. Each such cable can connect two devices,
          called device 0 and device 1, to a controller. Typical PCs had
          two connectors for such cables. As a result, support for up to
          four IDE devices was most common: primary device 0, primary
          device 1, secondary device 0, and secondary device 1.
        </p>
        <p>
          In Oracle VM VirtualBox, each virtual machine may have one IDE
          controller enabled, which gives you up to four virtual storage
          devices that you can attach to the machine. By default, one of
          these virtual storage devices, device 0 on the secondary
          channel, is preconfigured to be the virtual machine's virtual
          CD/DVD drive. However, you can change the default setting.
        </p>
        <p>
          Even if your guest OS has no support for SCSI or SATA devices,
          it should always be able to see an IDE controller.
        </p>
        <p>
          You can also select which exact type of IDE controller
          hardware Oracle VM VirtualBox should present to the virtual machine:
          PIIX3, PIIX4, or ICH6. This makes no difference in terms of
          performance, but if you import a virtual machine from another
          virtualization product, the OS in that machine may expect a
          particular controller type and crash if it is not found.
        </p>
        <p>
          After you have created a new virtual machine with the
          <b outputclass="bold">New Virtual Machine</b> wizard in
          VirtualBox Manager, you will typically see one IDE controller in the
          machine's <b outputclass="bold">Storage</b> settings.
          The virtual CD/DVD drive will be attached to one of the four
          ports of this controller.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Serial ATA (SATA)</b> is a more
          recent standard than IDE. Compared to IDE, it supports both
          much higher speeds and more devices per controller. Also, with
          physical hardware, devices can be added and removed while the
          system is running. The standard interface for SATA controllers
          is called Advanced Host Controller Interface (AHCI).
        </p>
        <p>
          Like a real SATA controller, Oracle VM VirtualBox's virtual SATA
          controller operates faster and also consumes fewer CPU
          resources than the virtual IDE controller. Also, this enables
          you to connect up to 30 virtual hard disks to one machine
          instead of just three, when compared to the Oracle VM VirtualBox IDE
          controller with a DVD drive attached.
        </p>
        <p>
          For this reason, depending on the selected guest OS,
          Oracle VM VirtualBox uses SATA as the default for newly created
          virtual machines. One virtual SATA controller is created by
          default, and the default disk that is created with a new VM is
          attached to this controller.
        </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
            The entire SATA controller and the virtual disks attached to
            it, including those in IDE compatibility mode, will not be
            seen by OSes that do not have device support for AHCI. In
            particular, <i>there is no support for AHCI in
            Windows versions before Windows Vista</i>. Legacy
            Windows versions such as Windows XP, even with SP3
            installed, will not see such disks unless you install
            additional drivers. It is possible to switch from IDE to
            SATA after installation by installing the SATA drivers and
            changing the controller type in the VM
            <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window.
          </p>
          <p>
            Oracle VM VirtualBox recommends the Intel Matrix Storage drivers,
            which can be downloaded from
            <ph>http://downloadcenter.intel.com/Product_Filter.aspx?ProductID=2101</ph>.
          </p>
        </note>
        <p>
          To add a SATA controller to a machine for which it has not
          been enabled by default, either because it was created by an
          earlier version of Oracle VM VirtualBox, or because SATA is not
          supported by default by the selected guest OS, do the
          following. Go to the <b outputclass="bold">Storage</b>
          page of the machine's
          <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window, click
          <b outputclass="bold">Add Controller</b> under the
          Storage Tree box and then select <b outputclass="bold">Add
          SATA Controller</b>. The new controller appears as a
          separate PCI device in the virtual machine, and you can add
          virtual disks to it.
        </p>
        <p>
          To change the IDE compatibility mode settings for the SATA
          controller, see <xref href="man_VBoxManage-storagectl.dita#vboxmanage-storagectl"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">SCSI</b> is another established
          industry standard, standing for Small Computer System
          Interface. SCSI is as a generic interface for data transfer
          between all kinds of devices, including storage devices. SCSI
          is still used for connecting some hard disks and tape devices,
          but it has mostly been displaced in commodity hardware. It is
          still in common use in high-performance workstations and
          servers.
        </p>
        <p>
          Primarily for compatibility with other virtualization
          software, Oracle VM VirtualBox optionally supports LSI Logic and
          BusLogic SCSI controllers, to each of which up to fifteen
          virtual hard disks can be attached.
        </p>
        <p>
          To enable a SCSI controller, on the
          <b outputclass="bold">Storage</b> page of a virtual
          machine's <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window,
          click <b outputclass="bold">Add Controller</b> under
          the Storage Tree box and then select <b outputclass="bold">Add
          SCSI Controller</b>. The new controller appears as a
          separate PCI device in the virtual machine.
        </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
            As with the other controller types, a SCSI controller will
            only be seen by OSes with device support for it. Windows
            2003 and later ships with drivers for the LSI Logic
            controller, while Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 2000 ships with
            drivers for the BusLogic controller. Windows XP ships with
            drivers for neither.
          </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Serial Attached SCSI (SAS)</b> is
          another bus standard which uses the SCSI command set. As
          opposed to SCSI physical devices, serial cables are used
          instead of parallel cables. This simplifies physical device
          connections. In some ways, therefore, SAS is to SCSI what SATA
          is to IDE: it enables more reliable and faster connections.
        </p>
        <p>
          To support high-end guests which require SAS controllers,
          Oracle VM VirtualBox emulates a LSI Logic SAS controller, which can
          be enabled much the same way as a SCSI controller. At this
          time, up to 255 devices can be connected to the SAS
          controller.
        </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
            As with SATA, the SAS controller will only be seen by OSes
            with device support for it. In particular, <i>there
            is no support for SAS in Windows before Windows
            Vista</i>. So Windows XP, even SP3, will not see such
            disks unless you install additional drivers.
          </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          The <b outputclass="bold">USB mass storage device
          class</b> is a standard to connect external storage
          devices like hard disks or flash drives to a host through USB.
          All major OSes support these devices and ship generic drivers
          making third-party drivers superfluous. In particular, legacy
          OSes without support for SATA controllers may benefit from USB
          mass storage devices.
        </p>
        <p>
          The virtual USB storage controller offered by Oracle VM VirtualBox
          works differently to the other storage controller types. While
          most storage controllers appear as a single PCI device to the
          guest with multiple disks attached to it, the USB-based
          storage controller does not appear as virtual storage
          controller. Each disk attached to the controller appears as a
          dedicated USB device to the guest.
        </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
            Booting from drives attached using USB is only supported
            when EFI is used as the BIOS lacks USB support.
          </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Non volatile memory express
          (NVMe)</b> is a standard for connecting non volatile
          memory (NVM) directly over PCI Express to lift the bandwidth
          limitation of the previously used SATA protocol for
          solid-state devices. Unlike other standards the command set is
          very simple in order to achieve maximum throughput and is not
          compatible with ATA or SCSI. OSes need to support NVMe devices
          to make use of them. For example, Windows 8.1 added native
          NVMe support. For Windows 7, native support was added with an
          update.
        </p>
        <p>
          The NVMe controller is part of the extension pack.
        </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
            Booting from drives attached using NVMe is only supported
            when EFI is used as the BIOS lacks the appropriate driver.
          </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Virtual I/O Device SCSI</b> is a
          standard to connect virtual storage devices like hard disks or
          optical drives to a VM. Recent Linux and Windows versions
          support these devices, but Windows needs additional drivers.
          Currently virtio-scsi controller support is experimental.
        </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
            The virtio-scsi controller will only be seen by OSes with
            device support for it. In particular, <i>there is no
            built-in support in Windows</i>. So Windows will not
            see such disks unless you install additional drivers.
          </p>
        </note>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      In summary, Oracle VM VirtualBox gives you the following categories of
      virtual storage slots:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Four slots attached to the traditional IDE controller, which
          are always present. One of these is typically a virtual CD/DVD
          drive.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          30 slots attached to the SATA controller, if enabled and
          supported by the guest OS.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          15 slots attached to the SCSI controller, if enabled and
          supported by the guest OS.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Up to 255 slots attached to the SAS controller, if enabled and
          supported by the guest OS.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Eight slots attached to the virtual USB controller, if enabled
          and supported by the guest OS.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Up to 255 slots attached to the NVMe controller, if enabled
          and supported by the guest OS.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Up to 256 slots attached to the virtio-scsi controller, if
          enabled and supported by the guest OS.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Given this large choice of storage controllers, you may not know
      which one to choose. In general, you should avoid IDE unless it is
      the only controller supported by your guest. Whether you use SATA,
      SCSI, or SAS does not make any real difference. The variety of
      controllers is only supplied by Oracle VM VirtualBox for compatibility
      with existing hardware and other hypervisors.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
