<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="hdimagewrites">
  <title>Special Image Write Modes</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      For each virtual disk image supported by Oracle VM VirtualBox, you can
      determine separately how it should be affected by write operations
      from a virtual machine and snapshot operations. This applies to
      all of the aforementioned image formats (VDI, VMDK, VHD, or HDD)
      and irrespective of whether an image is fixed-size or dynamically
      allocated.
    </p>
    <p>
      By default, images are in <i>normal</i> mode. To
      mark an existing image with one of the non-standard modes listed
      below, use <userinput>VBoxManage modifymedium</userinput>. See
      <xref href="vboxmanage-modifymedium.dita"/>. Alternatively, use
      <userinput>VBoxManage storageattach</userinput> to attach the image to
      a VM and specify the <codeph>--mtype</codeph> argument. See
      <xref href="vboxmanage-storageattach.dita"/>.
    </p>
    <p>
      The available virtual disk image modes are as follows:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Normal images</b> have no
          restrictions on how guests can read from and write to the
          disk. This is the default image mode.
        </p>
        <p>
          When you take a snapshot of your virtual machine as described
          in <xref href="snapshots.dita#snapshots"/>, the state of a normal hard
          disk is recorded together with the snapshot, and when
          reverting to the snapshot, its state will be fully reset.
        </p>
        <p>
          The image file itself is not reset. Instead, when a snapshot
          is taken, Oracle VM VirtualBox <i>freezes</i> the
          image file and no longer writes to it. For the write
          operations from the VM, a second,
          <i>differencing</i> image file is created which
          receives only the changes to the original image. See
          <xref href="diffimages.dita#diffimages"/>.
        </p>
        <p>
          While you can attach the same normal image to more than one
          virtual machine, only one of these virtual machines attached
          to the same image file can be executed simultaneously, as
          otherwise there would be conflicts if several machines write
          to the same image file.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Write-through hard disks</b> are
          completely unaffected by snapshots. Their state is
          <i>not</i> saved when a snapshot is taken, and
          not restored when a snapshot is restored.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Shareable hard disks</b> are a
          variant of write-through hard disks. In principle they behave
          exactly the same. Their state is <i>not</i>
          saved when a snapshot is taken, and not restored when a
          snapshot is restored. The difference only shows if you attach
          such disks to several VMs. Shareable disks may be attached to
          several VMs which may run concurrently. This makes them
          suitable for use by cluster filesystems between VMs and
          similar applications which are explicitly prepared to access a
          disk concurrently. Only fixed size images can be used in this
          way, and dynamically allocated images are rejected.
        </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
            This is an expert feature, and misuse can lead to data loss,
            as regular filesystems are not prepared to handle
            simultaneous changes by several parties.
          </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Immutable images</b> only
          remember write accesses temporarily while the virtual machine
          is running. All changes are lost when the virtual machine is
          powered on the next time. As a result, as opposed to Normal
          images, the same immutable image can be used with several
          virtual machines without restrictions.
        </p>
        <p>
          Creating an immutable image makes little sense since it would
          be initially empty and lose its contents with every machine
          restart. You would have a disk that is always unformatted when
          the machine starts up. Instead, you can first create a normal
          image and then later mark it as immutable when you decide that
          the contents are useful.
        </p>
        <p>
          If you take a snapshot of a machine with immutable images,
          then on every machine power-up, those images are reset to the
          state of the last (current) snapshot, instead of the state of
          the original immutable image.
        </p>
        <note>
          <p>
            As a special exception, immutable images are
            <i>not</i> reset if they are attached to a
            machine in a saved state or whose last snapshot was taken
            while the machine was running. This is called an
            <i>online snapshot</i>. As a result, if the
            machine's current snapshot is an online snapshot, its
            immutable images behave exactly like the a normal image. To
            reenable the automatic resetting of such images, delete the
            current snapshot of the machine.
          </p>
        </note>
        <p>
          Oracle VM VirtualBox never writes to an immutable image directly at
          all. All write operations from the machine are directed to a
          differencing image. The next time the VM is powered on, the
          differencing image is reset so that every time the VM starts,
          its immutable images have exactly the same content.
        </p>
        <p>
          The differencing image is only reset when the machine is
          powered on from within Oracle VM VirtualBox, not when you reboot by
          requesting a reboot from within the machine. This is also why
          immutable images behave as described above when snapshots are
          also present, which use differencing images as well.
        </p>
        <p>
          If the automatic discarding of the differencing image on VM
          startup does not fit your needs, you can turn it off using the
          <codeph>autoreset</codeph> parameter of <userinput>VBoxManage
          modifymedium</userinput>. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage-modifymedium.dita"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Multiattach mode images</b> can
          be attached to more than one virtual machine at the same time,
          even if these machines are running simultaneously. For each
          virtual machine to which such an image is attached, a
          differencing image is created. As a result, data that is
          written to such a virtual disk by one machine is not seen by
          the other machines to which the image is attached. Each
          machine creates its own write history of the multiattach
          image.
        </p>
        <p>
          Technically, a multiattach image behaves identically to an
          immutable image except the differencing image is not reset
          every time the machine starts.
        </p>
        <p>
          This mode is useful for sharing files which are almost never
          written, for instance picture galleries, where every guest
          changes only a small amount of data and the majority of the
          disk content remains unchanged. The modified blocks are stored
          in differencing images which remain relatively small and the
          shared content is stored only once at the host.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Read-only images</b> are used
          automatically for CD/DVD images, since CDs/DVDs can never be
          written to.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      The following scenario illustrates the differences between the
      various image modes, with respect to snapshots.
    </p>
    <p>
      Assume you have installed your guest OS in your VM, and you have
      taken a snapshot. Later, your VM is infected with a virus and you
      would like to go back to the snapshot. With a normal hard disk
      image, you simply restore the snapshot, and the earlier state of
      your hard disk image will be restored as well and your virus
      infection will be undone. With an immutable hard disk, all it
      takes is to shut down and power on your VM, and the virus
      infection will be discarded. With a write-through image however,
      you cannot easily undo the virus infection by means of
      virtualization, but will have to disinfect your virtual machine
      like a real computer.
    </p>
    <p>
      You might find write-through images useful if you want to preserve
      critical data irrespective of snapshots. As you can attach more
      than one image to a VM, you may want to have one immutable image
      for the OS and one write-through image for your data files.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
