<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="headless-vm-steps">
  <title>Step by Step: Creating a Virtual Machine on a Headless Server</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The following instructions describe how to create a virtual
        machine on a headless server over a network connection. This
        example creates a virtual machine, establishes an RDP connection
        and installs a guest operating system. All of these tasks are
        done without having to touch the headless server. You need the
        following prerequisites:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> on a server machine with a supported host
            operating system. The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-ext"/> for the
            VRDP server must be installed, see <xref href="vrde.dita#vrde"/>.
            The procedures assume a Linux server is used.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            An ISO file accessible from the server, containing the
            installation data for the guest operating system to install.
            Windows XP is used in the example.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            A terminal connection to that host through which you can
            access a command line, such as <userinput>ssh</userinput>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            An RDP viewer on the remote client. See
            <xref href="rdp-viewers.dita#rdp-viewers"/> for examples.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        Note that on the server machine, since we will only use the
        headless server, Qt and the X Window system are not required.
      </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
            On the headless server, create a new virtual machine. For
            example:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage createvm --name "Windows XP" --ostype WindowsXP --register</pre>
        <p>
            If you do not specify <codeph>--register</codeph>, you will
            have to manually use the <userinput>registervm</userinput>
            command later.
          </p>
        <p>
            You do not need to specify <codeph>--ostype</codeph>, but
            doing so selects some sensible default values for certain VM
            parameters. For example, the RAM size and the type of the
            virtual network device. To get a complete list of supported
            operating systems you can use the following command:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage list ostypes</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Make sure the settings for the VM are appropriate for the
            guest operating system that we will install. For example:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "Windows XP" --memory 256 --acpi on --boot1 dvd --nic1 nat</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Create a virtual hard disk for the VM. For example, to
            create a 10 GB virtual hard disk:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage createhd --filename "WinXP.vdi" --size 10000</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Add an IDE Controller to the new VM. For example:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage storagectl "Windows XP" --name "IDE Controller"
  --add ide --controller PIIX4</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Set the VDI file you created as the first virtual hard disk
            of the new VM. For example:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage storageattach "Windows XP" --storagectl "IDE Controller"
 --port 0 --device 0 --type hdd --medium "WinXP.vdi"</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Attach the ISO file that contains the operating system
            installation that you want to install later to the virtual
            machine. This is done so that the VM can boot from it.
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage storageattach "Windows XP" --storagectl "IDE Controller"
 --port 0 --device 1 --type dvddrive --medium /full/path/to/iso.iso</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Enable the VirtualBox Remote Desktop Extension, the VRDP
            server, as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "Windows XP" --vrde on</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Start the virtual machine using the
            <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput> command:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxHeadless --startvm "Windows XP"</pre>
        <p>
            If the configuration steps worked, you should see a
            copyright notice. If you are returned to the command line,
            then something did not work correctly.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            On the client machine, start the RDP viewer and connect to
            the server. See <xref href="rdp-viewers.dita#rdp-viewers"/> for details
            of how to use various common RDP viewers.
          </p>
        <p>
            The installation routine of your guest operating system
            should be displayed in the RDP viewer.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </body>
  
</topic>
