<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="heartbeatservice">
  <title>Configuring the Heartbeat Service</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox ships a simple heartbeat service. Once the Guest
      Additions are active, the guest sends frequent heartbeat pings to
      the host. If the guest stops sending the heartbeat pings without
      properly terminating the service, the VM process will log this
      event in the VBox.log file. In the future it might be possible to
      configure dedicated actions but for now there is only a warning in
      the log file.
    </p>
    <p>
      There are two parameters to configure. The <i>heartbeat
      interval</i> defines the time between two heartbeat pings.
      The default value is 2 seconds, that is, the heartbeat service of
      the Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest Additions will send a heartbeat ping
      every two seconds. The value in nanoseconds can be configured like
      this:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/VMMDev/0/Config/HeartbeatInterval 2000000000</pre>
    <p>
      The <i>heartbeat timeout</i> defines the time the
      host waits starting from the last heartbeat ping before it defines
      the guest as unresponsive. The default value is 2 times the
      heartbeat interval (4 seconds) and can be configured as following,
      in nanoseconds:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/VMMDev/0/Config/HeartbeatTimeout 4000000000</pre>
    <p>
      If the heartbeat timeout expires, there will be a log message like
      <i>VMMDev: HeartBeatCheckTimer: Guest seems to be
      unresponsive. Last heartbeat received 5 seconds ago.</i> If
      another heartbeat ping arrives after this warning, there will be a
      log message like <i>VMMDev: GuestHeartBeat: Guest is
      alive.</i>
               </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
