<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="help-viewer">
  <title>Help Viewer</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The Help Viewer is a window that displays context-sensitive help
        to assist you in completing common VirtualBox Manager tasks. You can
        display the Help Viewer in the following ways:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            In a VirtualBox Manager wizard or dialog, click
            <b outputclass="bold">Help</b> to display the
            relevant help topic.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            In VirtualBox Manager or from a guest VM, do either of the
            following:
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
                Select the <b outputclass="bold">Help</b>,
                <b outputclass="bold">Contents</b> menu option.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                Press the <b outputclass="bold">F1</b> button.
              </p>
            <p>
                The keyboard shortcut used to access the Help Viewer can
                be configured in the
                <b outputclass="bold">Preferences</b> window.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        The Help Viewer has the following features:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Navigation tools.</b> The left
            hand pane contains the following navigation tools:
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Contents.</b> Displays the
                help topic location in the Oracle VM VirtualBox documentation.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Search.</b> Enables you to
                search the documentation for help topics.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Bookmarks.</b> Enables you
                to bookmark useful help topics.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Tabbed browsing.</b> Help
            topics that you have visited are displayed in tabs in the
            main window pane.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Zoomable topics.</b> Zoom
            controls enable you to enlarge help topic details.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Printing.</b> Help topics can
            be printed to PDF file or to a local printer.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
