<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="hostossupport">
  <title>Supported Host Operating Systems</title>
  <!-- 7.1: Arm platforms; require statement on host support -->
  <body>
    <p>Currently, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> runs on the following host
      OSes: </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          <b outputclass="bold">Windows hosts (64-bit):</b>
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Windows 10 </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Windows 11 </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Windows Server 2019 </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Windows Server 2022 </p>
          </li>
          <li>Windows Server 2025</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          <b outputclass="bold">macOS hosts (64-bit):</b>
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>11 (Big Sur) </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>12 (Monterey) </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>13 (Ventura) </p>
          </li>
          <li>14 (Sonoma)</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Intel hardware is required. See also <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known
            Limitations</xref>. </p>
        <p>An installer package is available for macOS/Arm64, for systems using an Apple silicon
          CPU. With this package, you can run some guest operating systems for Intel x86/x64 CPUs in
          an emulation. </p>
        <p>The macOS/Arm64 installer package for Apple silicon platform is available as a Developer
          Preview release. This package represents a work in progress project and the performance is
          very modest. </p>
        <note>
          <p>Developer Preview is a public release for developers, which provides early access to unsupported software
            release and features. </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Linux hosts (64-bit).</b>
          Includes the following:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, 22.04 and 24.04</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Debian GNU/Linux 11 (Bullseye) and 12 (Bookworm)</p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Oracle Linux 7, 8 and 9 </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>CentOS/Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 and 9 </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>Fedora 39 and 40 </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>SUSE Linux Enterprise server 15 </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>openSUSE Leap 15.3, 15.4 and 15.5</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p> It should be possible to use <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> on
          most systems based on Linux kernel 2.6 or later, using either the <ph
            conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> installer or by doing a manual
          installation. See <xref href="install-linux-host.dita#install-linux-host"/>. However, the
          formally tested and supported Linux distributions are those for which we offer a dedicated
          package. </p>
        <p>Note that Linux 2.4-based host OSes are no longer supported. </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Oracle Solaris hosts (64-bit
          only).</b> The following versions are supported with
          the restrictions listed in <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref>:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
              Oracle Solaris 11.4
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>Note that any feature which is marked as <i>experimental</i> is not supported. Feedback and suggestions about
      such features are welcome. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
