<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="hostpowertweaks">
  <title>Handling of Host Power Management Events</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Some host power management events are handled by Oracle VM VirtualBox.
      The actual behavior depends on the platform:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Host Suspends.</b> This event is
          generated when the host is about to suspend, that is, the host
          saves the state to some non-volatile storage and powers off.
        </p>
        <p>
          This event is currently only handled on Windows hosts and Mac
          OS X hosts. When this event is generated, Oracle VM VirtualBox will
          pause all running VMs.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Host Resumes.</b> This event is
          generated when the host woke up from the suspended state.
        </p>
        <p>
          This event is currently only handled on Windows hosts and Mac
          OS X hosts. When this event is generated, Oracle VM VirtualBox will
          resume all VMs which are where paused before.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Battery Low.</b> The battery
          level reached a critical level, usually less than 5 percent
          charged.
        </p>
        <p>
          This event is currently only handled on Windows hosts and Mac
          OS X hosts. When this event is generated, Oracle VM VirtualBox will
          save the state and terminate all VMs in preparation of a
          potential host powerdown.
        </p>
        <p>
          The behavior can be configured. By executing the following
          command, no VM is saved:
        </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage setextradata global "VBoxInternal2/SavestateOnBatteryLow" 0</pre>
        <p>
          This is a global setting as well as a per-VM setting. The
          per-VM value has higher precedence than the global value. The
          following command will save the state of all VMs but will not
          save the state of VM "foo":
        </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage setextradata global "VBoxInternal2/SavestateOnBatteryLow" 1
$ VBoxManage setextradata "foo" "VBoxInternal2/SavestateOnBatteryLow" 0</pre>
        <p>
          The first line is actually not required as by default the
          savestate action is performed.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
