<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="hwvirt">
  <title>Hardware Virtualization</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> enables software in the virtual machine to run
      directly on the processor of the host, but an array of complex
      techniques is employed to intercept operations that would
      interfere with your host. Whenever the guest attempts to do
      something that could be harmful to your computer and its data,
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> steps in and takes action. In particular, for lots
      of hardware that the guest believes to be accessing,
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> simulates a certain <i>virtual</i>
      environment according to how you have configured a virtual
      machine. For example, when the guest attempts to access a hard
      disk, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> redirects these requests to whatever you have
      configured to be the virtual machine's virtual hard disk. This is
      normally an image file on your host.
    </p>
    <p>
      Unfortunately, the x86 platform was never designed to be
      virtualized. Detecting situations in which <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> needs to
      take control over the guest code that is executing, as described
      above, is difficult. To achieve this, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses
      <i>hardware virtualization</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      Intel and AMD processors have support for hardware virtualization.
      This means that these processors can help <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> to
      intercept potentially dangerous operations that a guest operating
      system may be attempting and also makes it easier to present
      virtual hardware to a virtual machine.
    </p>
    <p>
      These hardware features differ between Intel and AMD processors.
      Intel named its technology VT-x, AMD calls theirs AMD-V. The Intel
      and AMD support for virtualization is very different in detail,
      but not very different in principle.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        On many systems, the hardware virtualization features first need
        to be enabled in the BIOS before <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can use them.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      Enabling hardware virtualization is <i>required</i>
      in the following scenarios:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Certain rare guest operating systems like OS/2 make use of
          very esoteric processor instructions. For virtual machines
          that are configured to use such an operating system, hardware
          virtualization is enabled automatically.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>'s 64-bit guest and multiprocessing (SMP)
          support both require hardware virtualization to be enabled.
          This is not much of a limitation since the vast majority of
          64-bit and multicore CPUs ship with hardware virtualization.
          The exceptions to this rule are some legacy Intel and AMD
          CPUs.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <note type="attention">
      <p>
        Do not run other hypervisors, either open source or commercial
        virtualization products, together with <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. While
        several hypervisors can normally be
        <i>installed</i> in parallel, do not attempt to
        <i>run</i> several virtual machines from competing
        hypervisors at the same time. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> cannot track what
        another hypervisor is currently attempting to do on the same
        host, and especially if several products attempt to use hardware
        virtualization features such as VT-x, this can crash the entire
        host.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      See <xref href="hwvirt-details.dita#hwvirt-details"/> for a technical discussion of
      hardware virtualization.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
