<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="import-instance-sequence">
  <title>Importing an Instance: Overview of Events</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          The following describes the sequence of events when you import
          an instance from Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
        </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
              A custom image is created from the boot volume of the
              instance.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              The custom image is exported to an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure object and is
              stored using Object Storage in the bucket specified by the
              user.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              The Oracle Cloud Infrastructure object is downloaded to the local host. The
              object is a TAR archive which contains a boot volume of
              the instance in QCOW2 format and a JSON file containing
              metadata related to the instance.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              The boot volume of the instance is extracted from the
              archive and a new VMDK image is created by converting the
              boot volume into the VMDK format. The VMDK image is
              registered with Oracle VM VirtualBox.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              A new VM is created using the VMDK image for the cloud
              instance.
            </p>
        <p>
              By default, the new VM is not started after import from
              Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              The downloaded TAR archive is deleted after a successful
              import.
            </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
