<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="install-linux-debian-ubuntu">
  <title>Installing <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> from a Debian or Ubuntu Package</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          Download the appropriate package for your distribution. The
          following example assumes that you are installing to a 64-bit
          Ubuntu Xenial system. Use <userinput>dpkg</userinput> to install
          the Debian package,as follows:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">sudo dpkg -i virtualbox-<varname>version-number</varname>_Ubuntu_xenial_amd64.deb</pre>
    <p>
          The installer will also try to build kernel modules suitable
          for the current running kernel. If the build process is not
          successful you will be shown a warning and the package will be
          left unconfigured. Look at
          <filepath>/var/log/vbox-install.log</filepath> to find out why
          the compilation failed. You may have to install the
          appropriate Linux kernel headers, see
          <xref href="externalkernelmodules.dita#externalkernelmodules"/>. After correcting any
          problems, run the following command:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">sudo rcvboxdrv setup</pre>
    <p>
          This will start a second attempt to build the module.
        </p>
    <p>
          If a suitable kernel module was found in the package or the
          module was successfully built, the installation script will
          attempt to load that module. If this fails, please see
          <xref href="ts_linux-kernelmodule-fails-to-load.dita">Linux Kernel Module Refuses to Load</xref> for
          further information.
        </p>
    <p>
          Once <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> has been successfully installed and
          configured, you can start it by clicking
          <b outputclass="bold">VirtualBox</b> in your
          <b outputclass="bold">Start</b> menu or from the
          command line. See <xref href="startingvboxonlinux.dita"/>.
        </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
