<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="install-ext-pack-manager">
  <title>The Extension Pack Manager</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Extension packs can be installed and managed using the
        <b outputclass="bold">Extension Pack Manager</b> tool in
        VirtualBox Manager.
      </p>
    <p>
        The Extension Pack Manager lists the extension packs that are
        currently installed on the host, and enables you to install and
        uninstall extension packs.
      </p>
    <p>
        To display the Extension Pack Manager, go to the global
        <b outputclass="bold">Tools</b> menu and click
        <b outputclass="bold">Extensions</b>. The Extension Pack
        Manager is shown.
      </p>
    <p>
        To install an extension pack using the Extension Pack Manager,
        click <b outputclass="bold">Install</b> and select an
        extension package file. The extension pack is installed on the
        host and listed in Extension Pack Manager.
      </p>
    <p>
        To uninstall an extension pack with the Extension Pack Manager,
        do the following:
      </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
            Select the extension pack in the Extension Pack Manager
            window and click <b outputclass="bold">Uninstall</b>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Click <b outputclass="bold">Remove</b> in the prompt
            dialog.
          </p>
        <p>
            The extension pack is uninstalled from the host and removed
            from the Extension Pack Manager.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <p>
        Alternatively, you can use the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>
        command line to install and manage Oracle VM VirtualBox extension
        packs. See <xref href="man_VBoxManage-extpack.dita#vboxmanage-extpack"/>.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
