<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="install-linux-manual">
  <title>Performing a Manual Installation</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          If you cannot use the shell script installer described in
          <xref href="install-linux-alt-installer.dita#install-linux-alt-installer"/>, you can perform
          a manual installation. Run the installer as follows:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">./VirtualBox.run --keep --noexec</pre>
    <p>
          This will unpack all the files needed for installation in the
          directory <codeph>install</codeph> under the current
          directory. The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> application files are contained
          in <filepath>VirtualBox.tar.bz2</filepath> which you can
          unpack to any directory on your system. For example:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">sudo mkdir /opt/VirtualBox
sudo tar jxf ./install/VirtualBox.tar.bz2 -C /opt/VirtualBox</pre>
    <p>
          To run the same example as root, use the following commands:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">mkdir /opt/VirtualBox
tar jxf ./install/VirtualBox.tar.bz2 -C /opt/VirtualBox</pre>
    <p>
          The sources for <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>'s kernel module are provided in
          the <filepath>src</filepath> directory. To build the module,
          change to the directory and use the following command:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">make</pre>
    <p>
          If everything builds correctly, run the following command to
          install the module to the appropriate module directory:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">sudo make install</pre>
    <p>
          In case you do not have sudo, switch the user account to root
          and run the following command:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">make install</pre>
    <p>
          The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> kernel module needs a device node to
          operate. The above <userinput>make</userinput> command will tell
          you how to create the device node, depending on your Linux
          system. The procedure is slightly different for a classical
          Linux setup with a <filepath>/dev</filepath> directory, a
          system with the now deprecated <userinput>devfs</userinput> and a
          modern Linux system with <userinput>udev</userinput>.
        </p>
    <p>
          On certain Linux distributions, you might experience
          difficulties building the module. You will have to analyze the
          error messages from the build system to diagnose the cause of
          the problems. In general, make sure that the correct Linux
          kernel sources are used for the build process.
        </p>
    <p>
          Note that the <filepath>/dev/vboxdrv</filepath> kernel module
          device node must be owned by root:root and must be
          read/writable only for the user.
        </p>
    <p>
          Next, you install the system initialization script for the
          kernel module and activate the initialization script using the
          right method for your distribution, as follows:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">cp /opt/VirtualBox/vboxdrv.sh /sbin/rcvboxdrv</pre>
    <p>
          This example assumes you installed <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> to the
          <filepath>/opt/VirtualBox</filepath> directory.
        </p>
    <p>
          Create a configuration file for <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, as follows:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">mkdir /etc/vbox
echo INSTALL_DIR=/opt/VirtualBox &gt; /etc/vbox/vbox.cfg</pre>
    <p>
          Create the following symbolic links:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">ln -sf /opt/VirtualBox/VBox.sh /usr/bin/VirtualBox
ln -sf /opt/VirtualBox/VBox.sh /usr/bin/VBoxManage
ln -sf /opt/VirtualBox/VBox.sh /usr/bin/VBoxHeadless</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
