<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="install-solaris-performing">
  <title>Performing the Installation</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is available as a standard Oracle Solaris
        package. Download the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> SunOS package, which
        includes the 64-bit version of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. <i>The
        installation must be performed as root and from the global
        zone</i>. This is because the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> installer
        loads kernel drivers, which cannot be done from non-global
        zones. To verify which zone you are currently in, execute the
        <userinput>zonename</userinput> command.
      </p>
    <p>
        To start installation, run the following commands:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">gunzip -cd VirtualBox-<varname>version-number</varname>-SunOS.tar.gz | tar xvf -</pre>
    <p>
        The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> kernel package is integrated into the main
        package. Install the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> package as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">pkgadd -d VirtualBox-<varname>version-number</varname>-SunOS.pkg</pre>
    <p>
        The installer will then prompt you to enter the package you wish
        to install. Choose <b outputclass="bold">1</b> or
        <b outputclass="bold">all</b> and proceed. Next the
        installer will ask you if you want to allow the postinstall
        script to be executed. Choose <b outputclass="bold">y</b>
        and proceed, as it is essential to execute this script which
        installs the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> kernel module. Following this
        confirmation the installer will install <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> and
        execute the postinstall setup script.
      </p>
    <p>
        Once the postinstall script has been executed your installation
        is now complete. You may now safely delete the uncompressed
        package and <filepath>autoresponse</filepath> files from your
        system. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is installed in
        <filepath>/opt/VirtualBox</filepath>.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          If you need to use <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> from non-global zones, see
          <xref href="solaris-zones.dita#solaris-zones"/>.
        </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
