<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="install-win-performing">
  <title>Performing the Installation</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> installation can be started in either of the
        following ways:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            By double-clicking on the executable file.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            By entering the following command:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VirtualBox-&lt;version&gt;-&lt;revision&gt;-Win.exe -extract</pre>
        <p>
            This will extract the installer into a temporary directory,
            along with the .MSI file. Run the following command to
            perform the installation:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">msiexec /i VirtualBox-&lt;version&gt;-&lt;revision&gt;-Win.msi</pre>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        Using either way displays the installation
        <b outputclass="bold">Welcome</b> dialog and enables you
        to choose where to install <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, and which components
        to install. In addition to the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> application, the
        following components are available:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">USB support.</b> This package
            contains special drivers for your Windows host that
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> requires to fully support USB devices inside
            your virtual machines.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Networking.</b> This package
            contains extra networking drivers for your Windows host that
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> needs to support Bridged Networking. This
            enables your VM's virtual network cards to be accessed from
            other machines on your physical network.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Python support.</b> This
            package contains Python scripting support for the
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> API, see <xref href="VirtualBoxAPI.dita"><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Programming Interfaces</xref>.
            For this to work, an already working Windows Python
            installation on the system is required.
          </p>
        <p>
            See, for example:
            <ph>http://www.python.org/download/windows/</ph>.
          </p>
        <note>
          <p>
              Python version at least 2.6 is required. Python 3 is also
              supported.
            </p>
        </note>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        Depending on your Windows configuration, you may see warnings
        about unsigned drivers, or similar. Click
        <b outputclass="bold">Continue</b> for these warnings, as
        otherwise <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> might not function correctly after
        installation.
      </p>
    <p>
        The installer will create an <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> group in the Windows
        <b outputclass="bold">Start</b> menu, which enables you
        to launch the application and access its documentation.
      </p>
    <p>
        With standard settings, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> will be installed for all
        users on the local system. If this is not wanted, you must
        invoke the installer by first extracting as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VirtualBox.exe -extract</pre>
    <p>
        Then, run either of the following commands on the extracted .MSI
        file. This will install <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> only for the current
        user.
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VirtualBox.exe -msiparams ALLUSERS=2</pre>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">msiexec /i VirtualBox-&lt;version&gt;-Win.msi ALLUSERS=2</pre>
    <p>
        If you do not want to install all features of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>,
        you can set the optional <codeph>ADDLOCAL</codeph> parameter
        to explicitly name the features to be installed. The following
        features are available:
      </p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
            VBoxApplication
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Main binaries of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>.
            </p>
          <note>
            <p>
                This feature must not be absent, since it contains the
                minimum set of files to have working <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
                installation.
              </p>
          </note>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
            VBoxUSB
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              USB support.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
            VBoxNetwork
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              All networking support. This includes the VBoxNetworkFlt
              and VBoxNetworkAdp features.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
            VBoxNetworkFlt
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Bridged networking support.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
            VBoxNetworkAdp
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Host-only networking support
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
            VBoxPython
          </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              Python support
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>
        For example, to only install USB support along with the main
        binaries, run either of the following commands:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VirtualBox.exe -msiparams ADDLOCAL=VBoxApplication,VBoxUSB</pre>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">msiexec /i VirtualBox-&lt;version&gt;-Win.msi ADDLOCAL=VBoxApplication,VBoxUSB</pre>
    <p>
        The user is able to choose between NDIS5 and NDIS6 host network
        filter drivers during the installation. This is done using a
        command line parameter, <codeph>NETWORKTYPE</codeph>. The
        NDIS6 driver is the default for most supported Windows hosts.
        For some legacy Windows versions, the installer will
        automatically select the NDIS5 driver and this cannot be
        changed.
      </p>
    <p>
        You can force an install of the legacy NDIS5 host network filter
        driver by specifying <codeph>NETWORKTYPE=NDIS5</codeph>. For
        example, to install the NDIS5 driver on Windows 7 use either of
        the following commands:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VirtualBox.exe -msiparams NETWORKTYPE=NDIS5</pre>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">msiexec /i VirtualBox-&lt;version&gt;-Win;.msi NETWORKTYPE=NDIS5</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
