<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="intro-resize-window">
  <title>Resizing the Machine's Window</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        You can resize the VM's window while that VM is running. When
        you do, the window is scaled as follows:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            If you have <b outputclass="bold">scaled mode</b>
            enabled, then the virtual machine's screen will be scaled to
            the size of the window. This can be useful if you have many
            machines running and want to have a look at one of them
            while it is running in the background. Alternatively, it
            might be useful to enlarge a window if the VM's output
            screen is very small, for example because you are running an
            old OS in it.
          </p>
        <p>
            To enable scaled mode, press <b outputclass="bold">Host key
            + C</b>, or select <b outputclass="bold">Scaled
            Mode</b> from the
            <b outputclass="bold">View</b> menu in the VM window.
            To leave scaled mode, press <b outputclass="bold">Host key +
            C </b>again.
          </p>
        <p>
            The aspect ratio of the guest screen is preserved when
            resizing the window. To ignore the aspect ratio, press
            <b outputclass="bold">Shift</b> during the resize
            operation.
          </p>
        <p>
            See <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref> for additional remarks.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            If you have the Guest Additions installed and they support
            automatic <b outputclass="bold">resizing</b>, the
            Guest Additions will automatically adjust the screen
            resolution of the guest OS. For example, if you are running
            a Windows guest with a resolution of 1024x768 pixels and you
            then resize the VM window to make it 100 pixels wider, the
            Guest Additions will change the Windows display resolution
            to 1124x768.
          </p>
        <p>
            See <xref href="guestadditions.dita"/>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Otherwise, if the window is bigger than the VM's screen, the
            screen will be centered. If it is smaller, then scroll bars
            will be added to the machine window.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
