<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="intro-macosxguests">
  <title>Mac OS X Guests</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> enables you to install and execute unmodified
        versions of Mac OS X guests on supported host hardware. Note
        that this feature is experimental and thus unsupported.
      </p>
    <p>
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is the first product to provide the modern PC
        architecture expected by OS X without requiring any of the
        modifications used by competing virtualization solutions. For
        example, some competing solutions perform modifications to the
        Mac OS X install DVDs, such as a different boot loader and
        replaced files.
      </p>
    <p>
        Be aware of the following important issues before you attempt to
        install a Mac OS X guest:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Mac OS X is commercial, licensed software and contains
            <b outputclass="bold">both license and technical
            restrictions</b> that limit its use to certain
            hardware and usage scenarios. You must understand and comply
            with these restrictions.
          </p>
        <p>
            In particular, Apple prohibits the installation of most
            versions of Mac OS X on non-Apple hardware.
          </p>
        <p>
            These license restrictions are also enforced on a technical
            level. Mac OS X verifies that it is running on Apple
            hardware. Most DVDs that accompany Apple hardware check for
            the exact model. These restrictions are
            <i>not</i> circumvented by <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> and
            continue to apply.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Only <b outputclass="bold">CPUs</b> that are known
            and tested by Apple are supported. As a result, if your
            Intel CPU is newer than the Mac OS X build, or if you have a
            non-Intel CPU, you will likely encounter a panic during
            bootup with an "Unsupported CPU" exception.
          </p>
        <p>
            Ensure that you use the Mac OS X DVD that comes with your
            Apple hardware.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            The Mac OS X installer expects the hard disk to be
            <i>partitioned</i>. So, the installer will not
            offer a partition selection to you. Before you can install
            the software successfully, start the Disk Utility from the
            Tools menu and partition the hard disk. Close the Disk
            Utility and proceed with the installation.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            In addition, Mac OS X support in <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is an
            experimental feature. See <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref>.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
