<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="intro-installing">
  <title>Installing <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> and Extension Packs</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> comes in many different packages, and installation
      depends on your host OS. If you have installed software before,
      installation should be straightforward. On each host platform,
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses the installation method that is most common
      and easy to use. If you run into trouble or have special
      requirements, see <xref href="installation.dita#installation"/> for details
      about the various installation methods.
    </p>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is split into the following components:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Base package.</b> The base
          package consists of all open source components and is licensed
          under the GNU General Public License V2.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Extension packs.</b> Additional
          extension packs can be downloaded which extend the
          functionality of the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> base package. Currently,
          Oracle provides a single extension pack, available from:
          <ph>http://www.virtualbox.org</ph>. The extension pack
          provides the following added functionality:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
              VirtualBox Remote Desktop Protocol (VRDP) support. See
              <xref href="vrde.dita">Remote Display (VRDP Support)</xref>.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              Host webcam passthrough. See
              <xref href="webcam-passthrough.dita">Webcam Passthrough</xref>.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              Intel PXE boot ROM.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              Disk image encryption with AES algorithm. See
              <xref href="diskencryption.dita">Encryption of Disk Images</xref>.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              Cloud integration features. See
              <xref href="cloud-integration.dita"/>.
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>
          For details of how to install an extension pack, see
          <xref href="install-ext-pack.dita"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
