<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="Introduction">
  <title>First Steps</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>Welcome to <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>.</p>
    <p><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is a cross-platform virtualization
      application. What does that mean? For one thing, it installs on your existing Intel or
      AMD-based computers, whether they are running Windows, macOS, Linux, or Oracle Solaris
      operating systems (OSes). Second, it extends the capabilities of your existing computer so
      that it can run multiple OSes, inside multiple virtual machines, at the same time. As an
      example, you can run Windows and Linux on your Mac, run Windows Server on your Linux server,
      run Linux on your Windows PC, and so on, all alongside your existing applications. You can
      install and run as many virtual machines as you like. The only practical limits are disk space
      and memory.</p>
    <p><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is deceptively simple yet also very powerful. It can run
      everywhere from small embedded systems or desktop class machines all the way up to data center deployments and
      even Cloud environments. </p>
    <p>In this User Guide, we will begin simply with a quick introduction to virtualization and how to get your first
      virtual machine running with the easy-to-use <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> graphical user
      interface. Subsequent chapters will go into much more detail covering more powerful tools and features, but
      fortunately, it is not necessary to read the entire User Guide before you can use <ph
        conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. </p>
    <p>You can find a summary of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>'s capabilities in <xref
        href="features-overview.dita#features-overview"/>. For existing <ph
        conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> users who just want to find out what is new in this release,
      see the <xref href="https://docs.oracle.com/en/virtualization/virtualbox/7.0/relnotes/relnotes-ChangeLog.html"
        format="html" scope="external">Change Log</xref>. </p>
  </body>
</topic>
