<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="intro-removing">
  <title>Removing and Moving Virtual Machines</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      You can remove a VM from Oracle VM VirtualBox or move the VM and its
      associated files, such as disk images, to another location on the
      host.
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Removing a VM.</b> To remove a
          VM, right-click on the VM in the VirtualBox Manager machine list and
          select <b outputclass="bold">Remove</b>.
        </p>
        <p>
          The confirmation dialog enables you to specify whether to only
          remove the VM from the list of machines or to remove the files
          associated with the VM.
        </p>
        <p>
          Note that the <b outputclass="bold">Remove</b> menu
          item is disabled while a VM is running.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Moving a VM.</b> To move a VM to
          a new location on the host, right-click on the VM in the
          VirtualBox Manager's machine list and select
          <b outputclass="bold">Move</b>.
        </p>
        <p>
          The file dialog prompts you to specify a new location for the
          VM.
        </p>
        <p>
          When you move a VM, Oracle VM VirtualBox configuration files are
          updated automatically to use the new location on the host.
        </p>
        <p>
          Note that the <b outputclass="bold">Move</b> menu item
          is disabled while a VM is running.
        </p>
        <p>
          You can also use the <userinput>VBoxManage movevm</userinput>
          command to move a VM. See <xref href="man_VBoxManage-movevm.dita#vboxmanage-movevm"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      For information about removing or moving a disk image file from
      Oracle VM VirtualBox, see <xref href="virtual-media-manager.dita#virtual-media-manager"/>.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
