<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="iocaching">
  <title>Host Input/Output Caching</title>

  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can optionally disable the I/O caching that the
      host OS would otherwise perform on disk image files.
    </p>
    <p>
      Traditionally, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> has opened disk image files as
      normal files, which results in them being cached by the host OS
      like any other file. The main advantage of this is speed: when the
      guest OS writes to disk and the host OS cache uses delayed
      writing, the write operation can be reported as completed to the
      guest OS quickly while the host OS can perform the operation
      asynchronously. Also, when you start a VM a second time and have
      enough memory available for the OS to use for caching, large parts
      of the virtual disk may be in system memory, and the VM can access
      the data much faster.
    </p>
    <p>
      Note that this applies only to image files. Buffering does not
      occur for virtual disks residing on remote iSCSI storage, which is
      the more common scenario in enterprise-class setups. See
      <xref href="storage-iscsi.dita#storage-iscsi"/>.
    </p>
    <p>
      While buffering is a useful default setting for virtualizing a few
      machines on a desktop computer, there are some disadvantages to
      this approach:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Delayed writing through the host OS cache is less secure. When
          the guest OS writes data, it considers the data written even
          though it has not yet arrived on a physical disk. If for some
          reason the write does not happen, such as power failure or
          host crash, the likelihood of data loss increases.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Disk image files tend to be very large. Caching them can
          therefore quickly use up the entire host OS cache. Depending
          on the efficiency of the host OS caching, this may slow down
          the host immensely, especially if several VMs run at the same
          time. For example, on Linux hosts, host caching may result in
          Linux delaying all writes until the host cache is nearly full
          and then writing out all these changes at once, possibly
          stalling VM execution for minutes. This can result in I/O
          errors in the guest as I/O requests time out there.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Physical memory is often wasted as guest OSes typically have
          their own I/O caches, which may result in the data being
          cached twice, in both the guest and the host caches, for
          little effect.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      If you decide to disable host I/O caching for the above reasons,
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses its own small cache to buffer writes, but no
      read caching since this is typically already performed by the
      guest OS. In addition, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> fully supports asynchronous
      I/O for its virtual SATA, SCSI, and SAS controllers through
      multiple I/O threads.
    </p>
    <p>
      Since asynchronous I/O is not supported by IDE controllers, for
      performance reasons, you may want to leave host caching enabled
      for your VM's virtual IDE controllers.
    </p>
    <p>
      For this reason, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> enables you to configure whether
      the host I/O cache is used for each I/O controller separately.
      Either select the <b outputclass="bold">Use Host I/O
      Cache</b> check box in the
      <b outputclass="bold">Storage</b> settings for a given
      virtual storage controller, or use the following
      <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command to disable the host I/O
      cache for a virtual storage controller:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage storagectl "VM name" --name &lt;controllername&gt; --hostiocache off</pre>
    <p>
      See <xref href="vboxmanage-storagectl.dita"/>.
    </p>
    <p>
      For the above reasons, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses SATA controllers by
      default for new virtual machines.
    </p>
  </body>

</topic>
