<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="iscsi-intnet">
  <title>Access iSCSI Targets Using Internal Networking</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        As an experimental feature, Oracle VM VirtualBox enables access to an
        iSCSI target running in a virtual machine which is configured to
        use Internal Networking mode. See
        <xref href="storage-iscsi.dita">iSCSI Servers</xref>,
        <xref href="network_internal.dita">Internal Networking</xref>, and
        <xref href="man_VBoxManage-storageattach.dita">VBoxManage storageattach</xref>.
      </p>
    <p>
        The IP stack accessing Internal Networking must be configured in
        the virtual machine which accesses the iSCSI target. A free
        static IP and a MAC address not used by other virtual machines
        must be chosen. In the example below, adapt the name of the
        virtual machine, the MAC address, the IP configuration, and the
        Internal Networking name (MyIntNet) according to your needs. The
        following eight commands must first be issued:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/Trusted 1
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/Config/MAC 08:00:27:01:02:0f
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/Config/IP 10.0.9.1
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/Config/Netmask 255.255.255.0
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/LUN#0/Driver IntNet
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/LUN#0/Config/Network MyIntNet
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/LUN#0/Config/TrunkType 2
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> \
VBoxInternal/Devices/IntNetIP/0/LUN#0/Config/IsService 1</pre>
    <p>
        Finally the iSCSI disk must be attached with the
        <codeph>--intnet</codeph> option to tell the iSCSI initiator to
        use internal networking, as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage storageattach ... --medium iscsi --server 10.0.9.30 \
--target iqn.2008-12.com.sun:sampletarget --intnet</pre>
    <p>
        Compared to a regular iSCSI setup, the IP address of the target
        <i>must</i> be specified as a numeric IP address,
        as there is no DNS resolver for internal networking.
      </p>
    <p>
        The virtual machine with the iSCSI target should be started
        before the VM using it is powered on. If a virtual machine using
        an iSCSI disk is started without having the iSCSI target powered
        up, it can take up to 200 seconds to detect this situation. The
        VM will fail to power up.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
