<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="mountingadditionsiso">
  <title>Installing the Windows Guest Additions</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          In the <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b> menu in the
          virtual machine's menu bar, Oracle VM VirtualBox has a menu item
          <b outputclass="bold">Insert Guest Additions CD
          Image</b>, which mounts the Guest Additions ISO file
          inside your virtual machine. A Windows guest should then
          automatically start the Guest Additions installer, which
          installs the Guest Additions on your Windows guest.
        </p>
    <p>
          For other guest operating systems, or if automatic start of
          software on a CD is disabled, you need to do a manual start of
          the installer.
        </p>
    <note>
      <p>
            For the basic Direct3D acceleration to work in a Windows
            guest, you have to install the WDDM video driver available
            for Windows Vista or later.
          </p>
      <p>
            For Windows 8 and later, only the WDDM Direct3D video driver
            is available. For basic Direct3D acceleration to work in
            Windows XP guests, you have to install the Guest Additions
            in Safe Mode. See <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref> for
            details.
          </p>
    </note>
    <p>
          If you prefer to mount the Guest Additions manually, you can
          perform the following steps:
        </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
              Start the virtual machine in which you have installed
              Windows.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              Select <b outputclass="bold">Optical Drives</b>
              from the <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b> menu in
              the virtual machine's menu bar and then
              <b outputclass="bold">Choose/Create a Disk
              Image</b>. This displays the Virtual Media Manager,
              described in <xref href="virtual-media-manager.dita#virtual-media-manager"/>.
            </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              In the Virtual Media Manager, click
              <b outputclass="bold">Add</b> and browse your host
              file system for the
              <filepath>VBoxGuestAdditions.iso</filepath> file.
            </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
                  On a Windows host, this file is in the Oracle VM VirtualBox
                  installation directory, usually in
                  <filepath>C:\Program
                  files\Oracle\VirtualBox</filepath>.
                </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  On macOS hosts, this file is in the application bundle
                  of Oracle VM VirtualBox. Right-click on the Oracle VM VirtualBox
                  icon in Finder and choose <b outputclass="bold">Show
                  Package Contents</b>. The file is located in
                  the <filepath>Contents/MacOS</filepath> folder.
                </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  On a Linux host, this file is in the
                  <filepath>additions</filepath> folder where you
                  installed Oracle VM VirtualBox, usually
                  <filepath>/opt/VirtualBox/</filepath>.
                </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                  On Oracle Solaris hosts, this file is in the
                  <filepath>additions</filepath> folder where you
                  installed Oracle VM VirtualBox, usually
                  <filepath>/opt/VirtualBox</filepath>.
                </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
              In the Virtual Media Manager, select the ISO file and
              click the <b outputclass="bold">Add</b> button.
              This mounts the ISO file and presents it to your Windows
              guest as a CD-ROM.
            </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <p>
          Unless you have the Autostart feature disabled in your Windows
          guest, Windows will now autostart the Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest
          Additions installation program from the Additions ISO. If the
          Autostart feature has been turned off, choose
          <filepath>VBoxWindowsAdditions.exe</filepath> from the CD/DVD
          drive inside the guest to start the installer.
        </p>
    <p>
          The installer will add several device drivers to the Windows
          driver database and then invoke the hardware detection wizard.
        </p>
    <p>
          Depending on your configuration, it might display warnings
          that the drivers are not digitally signed. You must confirm
          these in order to continue the installation and properly
          install the Additions.
        </p>
    <p>
          After installation, reboot your guest operating system to
          activate the Additions.
        </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
