<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="mouse-capture">
  <title>Configuring Automatic Mouse Capturing</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        By default, the mouse is captured if the user clicks on the
        guest window and the guest expects relative mouse coordinates at
        this time. This happens if the pointing device is configured as
        PS/2 mouse and the guest has not yet started the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
        Guest Additions. For instance, the guest is booting or the Guest
        Additions are not installed, or if the pointing device is
        configured as a USB tablet but the guest has no USB driver
        loaded yet. Once the Guest Additions become active or the USB
        guest driver is started, the mouse capture is automatically
        released.
      </p>
    <p>
        The default behavior is sometimes not desired. Therefore it can
        be configured as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> GUI/MouseCapturePolicy <varname>mode</varname>
                  </pre>
    <p><varname>mode</varname> is one of the following:
      </p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>Default</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              The default behavior as described above.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>HostComboOnly</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              The mouse is only captured if the Host Key is toggled.
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>
          <codeph>Disabled</codeph>
        </dt>
        <dd>
          <p>
              The mouse is never captured, also not by toggling the Host
              Key
            </p>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>
        This is a per-VM setting.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
