<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="nat-limitations">
  <title>NAT Limitations</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        There are some limitations of NAT mode which users should be
        aware of, as follows:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">ICMP protocol limitations.</b>
            Some frequently used network debugging tools, such as
            <userinput>ping</userinput> or <userinput>traceroute</userinput>,
            rely on the ICMP protocol for sending and receiving
            messages. Oracle VM VirtualBox ICMP support has some limitations,
            meaning <userinput>ping</userinput> should work but some other
            tools may not work reliably.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Receiving of UDP
            broadcasts.</b> The guest does not reliably receive
            UDP broadcasts. In order to save resources, it only listens
            for a certain amount of time after the guest has sent UDP
            data on a particular port. As a consequence, NetBios name
            resolution based on broadcasts does not always work, but
            WINS always works. As a workaround, you can use the numeric
            IP of the desired server in the
            <filepath>\\<varname>server</varname>\<varname>share</varname></filepath>
            notation.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Some protocols are not
            supported.</b> Protocols other than TCP and UDP are
            not supported. GRE is not supported. This means some VPN
            products, such as PPTP from Microsoft, cannot be used. There
            are other VPN products which use only TCP and UDP.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Forwarding host ports below
            1024.</b> On UNIX-based hosts, such as Linux, Oracle
            Solaris, and macOS, it is not possible to bind to ports
            below 1024 from applications that are not run by
            <codeph>root</codeph>. As a result, if you try to
            configure such a port forwarding, the VM will refuse to
            start.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        These limitations normally do not affect standard network use.
        But the presence of NAT has also subtle effects that may
        interfere with protocols that are normally working. One example
        is NFS, where the server is often configured to refuse
        connections from non-privileged ports, which are those ports not
        below 1024.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
