<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="natforward">
  <title>Configuring Port Forwarding with NAT</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        As the virtual machine is connected to a private network
        internal to Oracle VM VirtualBox and invisible to the host, network
        services on the guest are not accessible to the host machine or
        to other computers on the same network. However, like a physical
        router, Oracle VM VirtualBox can make selected services available to
        the world outside the guest through <i>port
        forwarding</i>. This means that Oracle VM VirtualBox listens to
        certain ports on the host and resends all packets which arrive
        there to the guest, on the same or a different port.
      </p>
    <p>
        To an application on the host or other physical or virtual
        machines on the network, it looks as though the service being
        proxied is actually running on the host. This also means that
        you cannot run the same service on the same ports on the host.
        However, you still gain the advantages of running the service in
        a virtual machine. For example, services on the host machine or
        on other virtual machines cannot be compromised or crashed by a
        vulnerability or a bug in the service, and the service can run
        in a different operating system than the host system.
      </p>
    <p>
        To configure port forwarding you can use the graphical
        <b outputclass="bold">Port Forwarding</b> editor which
        can be found in the <b outputclass="bold">Network</b>
        settings dialog for network adaptors configured to use NAT.
        Here, you can map host ports to guest ports to allow network
        traffic to be routed to a specific port in the guest.
      </p>
    <p>
        Alternatively, the command line tool
        <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> can be used. See
        <xref href="man_VBoxManage-modifyvm.dita#vboxmanage-modifyvm"/>.
      </p>
    <p>
        You will need to know which ports on the guest the service uses
        and to decide which ports to use on the host. You may want to
        use the same ports on the guest and on the host. You can use any
        ports on the host which are not already in use by a service. For
        example, to set up incoming NAT connections to an
        <userinput>ssh</userinput> server in the guest, use the following
        command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --nat-pf1 "guestssh,tcp,,2222,,22"</pre>
    <p>
        In the above example, all TCP traffic arriving on port 2222 on
        any host interface will be forwarded to port 22 in the guest.
        The protocol name <codeph>tcp</codeph> is a mandatory
        attribute defining which protocol should be used for forwarding,
        <codeph>udp</codeph> could also be used. The name
        <codeph>guestssh</codeph> is purely descriptive and will be
        auto-generated if omitted. The number after
        <codeph>--nat-pf</codeph> denotes the network card, as with
        other <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> commands.
      </p>
    <p>
        To remove this forwarding rule, use the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --natpf1 delete "guestssh"</pre>
    <p>
        If for some reason the guest uses a static assigned IP address
        not leased from the built-in DHCP server, it is required to
        specify the guest IP when registering the forwarding rule, as
        follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --natpf1 "guestssh,tcp,,2222,10.0.2.19,22"</pre>
    <p>
        This example is identical to the previous one, except that the
        NAT engine is being told that the guest can be found at the
        10.0.2.19 address.
      </p>
    <p>
        To forward <i>all</i> incoming traffic from a
        specific host interface to the guest, specify the IP of that
        host interface as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --natpf1 "guestssh,tcp,127.0.0.1,2222,,22"</pre>
    <p>
        This example forwards all TCP traffic arriving on the localhost
        interface at 127.0.0.1 through port 2222 to port 22 in the
        guest.
      </p>
    <p>
        It is possible to configure incoming NAT connections while the
        VM is running, see <xref href="man_VBoxManage-controlvm.dita#vboxmanage-controlvm"/>.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
