<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="nestedpaging">
  <title>Nested Paging and VPIDs</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      In addition to normal hardware virtualization, your processor may
      also support the following additional sophisticated techniques:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Nested paging implements some memory management in hardware,
          which can greatly accelerate hardware virtualization since
          these tasks no longer need to be performed by the
          virtualization software.
        </p>
        <p>
          With nested paging, the hardware provides another level of
          indirection when translating linear to physical addresses.
          Page tables function as before, but linear addresses are now
          translated to "guest physical" addresses first and not
          physical addresses directly. A new set of paging registers now
          exists under the traditional paging mechanism and translates
          from guest physical addresses to host physical addresses,
          which are used to access memory.
        </p>
        <p>
          Nested paging eliminates the overhead caused by VM exits and
          page table accesses. In essence, with nested page tables the
          guest can handle paging without intervention from the
          hypervisor. Nested paging thus significantly improves
          virtualization performance.
        </p>
        <p>
          On AMD processors, nested paging has been available starting
          with the Barcelona (K10) architecture. They now call it rapid
          virtualization indexing (RVI). Intel added support for nested
          paging, which they call extended page tables (EPT), with their
          Core i7 (Nehalem) processors.
        </p>
        <p>
          If nested paging is enabled, the Oracle VM VirtualBox hypervisor can
          also use <i>large pages</i> to reduce TLB usage
          and overhead. This can yield a performance improvement of up
          to 5%. To enable this feature for a VM, you use the
          <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm --large-pages</userinput> command.
          See <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita">VBoxManage modifyvm</xref>.
        </p>
        <p>
          If you have an Intel CPU with EPT, please consult
          <xref href="sec-rec-cve-2018-3646.dita#sec-rec-cve-2018-3646"/> for security concerns
          regarding EPT.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          On Intel CPUs, a hardware feature called Virtual Processor
          Identifiers (VPIDs) can greatly accelerate context switching
          by reducing the need for expensive flushing of the processor's
          Translation Lookaside Buffers (TLBs).
        </p>
        <p>
          To enable these features for a VM, you use the
          <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm --vtx-vpid</userinput> and
          <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm --large-pages</userinput> commands.
          See <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita">VBoxManage modifyvm</xref>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
