<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_bridged">
  <title>Bridged Networking</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      With bridged networking, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses a device driver on
      your <i>host</i> system that filters data from your
      physical network adapter. This driver is therefore called a
      <i>net filter</i> driver. This enables
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> to intercept data from the physical network and
      inject data into it, effectively creating a new network interface
      in software. When a guest is using such a new software interface,
      it looks to the host system as though the guest were physically
      connected to the interface using a network cable. The host can
      send data to the guest through that interface and receive data
      from it. This means that you can set up routing or bridging
      between the guest and the rest of your network.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        Even though TAP interfaces are no longer necessary on Linux for
        bridged networking, you <i>can</i> still use TAP
        interfaces for certain advanced setups, since you can connect a
        VM to any host interface.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      To enable bridged networking, open the
      <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> dialog of a virtual
      machine, go to the <b outputclass="bold">Network</b> page
      and select <b outputclass="bold">Bridged Network</b> in the
      drop-down list for the <b outputclass="bold">Attached
      To</b> field. Select a host interface from the list at the
      bottom of the page, which contains the physical network interfaces
      of your systems. On a typical MacBook, for example, this will
      allow you to select between en1: AirPort, which is the wireless
      interface, and en0: Ethernet, which represents the interface with
      a network cable.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        Bridging to a wireless interface is done differently from
        bridging to a wired interface, because most wireless adapters do
        not support promiscuous mode. All traffic has to use the MAC
        address of the host's wireless adapter, and therefore
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> needs to replace the source MAC address in the
        Ethernet header of an outgoing packet to make sure the reply
        will be sent to the host interface. When <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> sees an
        incoming packet with a destination IP address that belongs to
        one of the virtual machine adapters it replaces the destination
        MAC address in the Ethernet header with the VM adapter's MAC
        address and passes it on. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> examines ARP and DHCP
        packets in order to learn the IP addresses of virtual machines.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      Depending on your host operating system, the following limitations
      apply:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">macOS hosts.</b> Functionality is
          limited when using AirPort, the Mac's wireless networking
          system, for bridged networking. Currently, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          supports only IPv4 and IPv6 over AirPort. For other protocols,
          such as IPX, you must choose a wired interface.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Linux hosts.</b> Functionality is
          limited when using wireless interfaces for bridged networking.
          Currently, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> supports only IPv4 and IPv6 over
          wireless. For other protocols, such as IPX, you must choose a
          wired interface.
        </p>
        <p>
          Also, setting the MTU to less than 1500 bytes on wired
          interfaces provided by the sky2 driver on the Marvell Yukon II
          EC Ultra Ethernet NIC is known to cause packet losses under
          certain conditions.
        </p>
        <p>
          Some adapters strip VLAN tags in hardware. This does not allow
          you to use VLAN trunking between VM and the external network
          with pre-2.6.27 Linux kernels, or with host operating systems
          other than Linux.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Oracle Solaris hosts.</b> There
          is no support for using wireless interfaces. Filtering guest
          traffic using IPFilter is also not completely supported due to
          technical restrictions of the Oracle Solaris networking
          subsystem. These issues may be addressed in later releases of
          Oracle Solaris 11.
        </p>
        <p>
          On Oracle Solaris 11 hosts build 159 and above, it is possible
          to use Oracle Solaris Crossbow Virtual Network Interfaces
          (VNICs) directly with <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> without any additional
          configuration other than each VNIC must be exclusive for every
          guest network interface.
        </p>
        <p>
          When using VLAN interfaces with <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, they must be
          named according to the PPA-hack naming scheme, such as
          e1000g513001. Otherwise, the guest may receive packets in an
          unexpected format.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
