<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_bandwidth_limit">
  <title>Limiting Bandwidth for Network Input/Output</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> supports limiting of the maximum bandwidth used for
      network transmission. Several network adapters of one VM may share
      limits through bandwidth groups. It is possible to have more than
      one such limit.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> shapes VM traffic only in the transmit direction,
        delaying the packets being sent by virtual machines. It does not
        limit the traffic being received by virtual machines.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      Limits are configured through <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>. The
      following example creates a bandwidth group named Limit, sets the
      limit to 20 Mbps and assigns the group to the first and second
      adapters of the VM:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage bandwidthctl "VM name" add Limit --type network --limit 20m
VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --nicbandwidthgroup1 Limit
VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --nicbandwidthgroup2 Limit</pre>
    <p>
      All adapters in a group share the bandwidth limit, meaning that in
      the example above the bandwidth of both adapters combined can
      never exceed 20 Mbps. However, if one adapter does not require
      bandwidth the other can use the remaining bandwidth of its group.
    </p>
    <p>
      The limits for each group can be changed while the VM is running,
      with changes being picked up immediately. The following example
      changes the limit for the group created in the previous example to
      100 Kbps:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage bandwidthctl "VM name" set Limit --limit 100k</pre>
    <p>
      To completely disable shaping for the first adapter of VM use the
      following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --nicbandwidthgroup1 none</pre>
    <p>
      It is also possible to disable shaping for all adapters assigned
      to a bandwidth group while VM is running, by specifying the zero
      limit for the group. For example, for the bandwidth group named
      Limit:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage bandwidthctl "VM name" set Limit --limit 0</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
