<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_nat">
  <title>Network Address Translation (NAT)</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Network Address Translation (NAT) is the simplest way of accessing
      an external network from a virtual machine. Usually, it does not
      require any configuration on the host network and guest system.
      For this reason, it is the default networking mode in
      Oracle VM VirtualBox.
    </p>
    <p>
      A virtual machine with NAT enabled acts much like a real computer
      that connects to the Internet through a router. The router, in
      this case, is the Oracle VM VirtualBox networking engine, which maps
      traffic from and to the virtual machine transparently. In
      Oracle VM VirtualBox this router is placed between each virtual machine
      and the host. This separation maximizes security since by default
      virtual machines cannot talk to each other.
    </p>
    <p>
      The disadvantage of NAT mode is that, much like a private network
      behind a router, the virtual machine is invisible and unreachable
      from the outside internet. You cannot run a server this way unless
      you set up port forwarding. See <xref href="natforward.dita#natforward"/>.
    </p>
    <p>
      The network frames sent out by the guest operating system are
      received by Oracle VM VirtualBox's NAT engine, which extracts the TCP/IP
      data and resends it using the host operating system. To an
      application on the host, or to another computer on the same
      network as the host, it looks like the data was sent by the
      Oracle VM VirtualBox application on the host, using an IP address
      belonging to the host. Oracle VM VirtualBox listens for replies to the
      packages sent, and repacks and resends them to the guest machine
      on its private network.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        Even though the NAT engine separates the VM from the host, the
        VM has access to the host's loopback interface and the network
        services running on it. The host's loopback interface is
        accessible as IP address 10.0.2.2. This access to the host's
        loopback interface can be extremely useful in some cases, for
        example when running a web application under development in the
        VM and the database server on the loopback interface on the
        host.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      The virtual machine receives its network address and configuration
      on the private network from a DHCP server integrated into
      Oracle VM VirtualBox. The IP address thus assigned to the virtual
      machine is usually on a completely different network than the
      host. As more than one card of a virtual machine can be set up to
      use NAT, the first card is connected to the private network
      10.0.2.0, the second card to the network 10.0.3.0 and so on. If
      you need to change the guest-assigned IP range, see
      <xref href="changenat.dita">Fine Tuning the Oracle VM VirtualBox NAT Engine</xref>.
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
