<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_nat_service">
  <title>Network Address Translation Service</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      The Network Address Translation (NAT) service works in a similar
      way to a home router, grouping the systems using it into a network
      and preventing systems outside of this network from directly
      accessing systems inside it, but letting systems inside
      communicate with each other and with systems outside using TCP and
      UDP over IPv4 and IPv6.
    </p>
    <p>
      A NAT service is attached to an internal network. Virtual machines
      which are to make use of it should be attached to that internal
      network. The name of internal network is chosen when the NAT
      service is created and the internal network will be created if it
      does not already exist. The following is an example command to
      create a NAT network:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork add --netname natnet1 --network "192.168.15.0/24" --enable</pre>
    <p>
      Here, natnet1 is the name of the internal network to be used and
      192.168.15.0/24 is the network address and mask of the NAT service
      interface. By default in this static configuration the gateway
      will be assigned the address 192.168.15.1, the address following
      the interface address, though this is subject to change. To attach
      a DHCP server to the internal network, modify the example command
      as follows:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork add --netname natnet1 --network "192.168.15.0/24" --enable --dhcp on</pre>
    <p>
      To add a DHCP server to an existing network, use the following
      command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork modify --netname natnet1 --dhcp on</pre>
    <p>
      To disable the DHCP server, use the following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork modify --netname natnet1 --dhcp off</pre>
    <p>
      A DHCP server provides a list of registered nameservers, but does
      not map servers from the 127/8 network.
    </p>
    <p>
      To start the NAT service, use the following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork start --netname natnet1</pre>
    <p>
      If the network has a DHCP server attached then it will start
      together with the NAT network service.
    </p>
    <p>
      To stop the NAT network service, together with any DHCP server:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork stop --netname natnet1</pre>
    <p>
      To delete the NAT network service:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork remove --netname natnet1</pre>
    <p>
      This command does not remove the DHCP server if one is enabled on
      the internal network.
    </p>
    <p>
      Port-forwarding is supported, using the
      <codeph>--port-forward-4</codeph> switch for IPv4 and
      <codeph>--port-forward-6</codeph> for IPv6. For example:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork modify \
  --netname natnet1 --port-forward-4 "ssh:tcp:[]:1022:[192.168.15.5]:22"</pre>
    <p>
      This adds a port-forwarding rule from the host's TCP 1022 port to
      the port 22 on the guest with IP address 192.168.15.5. Host port,
      guest port and guest IP are mandatory. To delete the rule, use the
      following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage natnetwork modify --netname natnet1 --port-forward-4 delete ssh</pre>
    <p>
      It is possible to bind a NAT service to specified interface. For
      example:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata global "NAT/win-nat-test-0/SourceIp4" 192.168.1.185</pre>
    <p>
      To see the list of registered NAT networks, use the following
      command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage list natnetworks</pre>
    <p>
      NAT networks can also be created, deleted, and configured using
      the Network Manager tool in VirtualBox Manager. Click
      <b outputclass="bold">File</b>, <b outputclass="bold">
      Tools</b>, <b outputclass="bold">Network
      Manager</b>. See <xref href="network-manager.dita#network-manager"/>.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        Even though the NAT service separates the VM from the host, the
        VM has access to the host's loopback interface and the network
        services running on it. The host's loopback interface is
        accessible as IP address 10.0.2.2 (assuming the default
        configuration, in other configurations it's the respective
        address in the configured IPv4 or IPv6 network range). This
        access to the host's loopback interface can be extremely useful
        in some cases, for example when running a web application under
        development in the VM and the database server on the loopback
        interface on the host.
      </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
