<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_udp_tunnel">
  <title>UDP Tunnel Networking</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      This networking mode enables you to interconnect virtual machines
      running on different hosts.
    </p>
    <p>
      Technically this is done by encapsulating Ethernet frames sent or
      received by the guest network card into UDP/IP datagrams, and
      sending them over any network available to the host.
    </p>
    <p>
      UDP Tunnel mode has the following parameters:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Source UDP port:</b> The port on
          which the host listens. Datagrams arriving on this port from
          any source address will be forwarded to the receiving part of
          the guest network card.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Destination address:</b> IP
          address of the target host of the transmitted data.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Destination UDP port:</b> Port
          number to which the transmitted data is sent.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      When interconnecting two virtual machines on two different hosts,
      their IP addresses must be swapped. On a single host, source and
      destination UDP ports must be swapped.
    </p>
    <p>
      In the following example, host 1 uses the IP address 10.0.0.1 and
      host 2 uses IP address 10.0.0.2. To configure using the
      command-line:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 01 on host 1" --nic&lt;x&gt; generic
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 01 on host 1" --nic-generic-drv&lt;x&gt; UDPTunnel
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 01 on host 1" --nic-property&lt;x&gt; dest=10.0.0.2
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 01 on host 1" --nic-property&lt;x&gt; sport=10001
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 01 on host 1" --nic-property&lt;x&gt; dport=10002</pre>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 02 on host 2" --nic&lt;y&gt; generic
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 02 on host 2" --nic-generic-drv&lt;y&gt; UDPTunnel
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 02 on host 2" --nic-property&lt;y&gt; dest=10.0.0.1
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 02 on host 2" --nic-property&lt;y&gt; sport=10002
        VBoxManage modifyvm "VM 02 on host 2" --nic-property&lt;y&gt; dport=10001</pre>
    <p>
      Of course, you can always interconnect two virtual machines on the
      same host, by setting the destination address parameter to
      127.0.0.1 on both. It will act similarly to an internal network in
      this case. However, the host can see the network traffic which it
      could not in the normal internal network case.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        On UNIX-based hosts, such as Linux, Oracle Solaris, and Mac OS
        X, it is not possible to bind to ports below 1024 from
        applications that are not run by <codeph>root</codeph>. As a
        result, if you try to configure such a source UDP port, the VM
        will refuse to start.
      </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
