<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_hostonly">
  <title>Host-Only Networking</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Host-only networking can be thought of as a hybrid between the
      bridged and internal networking modes. As with bridged networking,
      the virtual machines can talk to each other and the host as if
      they were connected through a physical Ethernet switch. As with
      internal networking, a physical networking interface need not be
      present, and the virtual machines cannot talk to the world outside
      the host since they are not connected to a physical networking
      interface.
    </p>
    <p>
      When host-only networking is used, Oracle VM VirtualBox creates a new
      software interface on the host which then appears next to your
      existing network interfaces. In other words, whereas with bridged
      networking an existing physical interface is used to attach
      virtual machines to, with host-only networking a new
      <i>loopback</i> interface is created on the host.
      And whereas with internal networking, the traffic between the
      virtual machines cannot be seen, the traffic on the loopback
      interface on the host can be intercepted.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        Hosts running recent macOS versions do not support host-only
        adapters. These adapters are replaced by host-only networks,
        which define a network mask and an IP address range, where the
        host network interface receives the lowest address in the range.
      </p>
      <p>
        The host network interface gets added and removed dynamically by
        the operating system, whenever a host-only network is used by
        virtual machines.
      </p>
      <p>
        On macOS hosts, choose the <b outputclass="bold">Host-Only
        Network</b> option when configuring a network adapter.
        The <b outputclass="bold">Host-Only Adapter</b> option is
        provided for legacy support.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      Host-only networking is particularly useful for preconfigured
      virtual appliances, where multiple virtual machines are shipped
      together and designed to cooperate. For example, one virtual
      machine may contain a web server and a second one a database, and
      since they are intended to talk to each other, the appliance can
      instruct Oracle VM VirtualBox to set up a host-only network for the two.
      A second, bridged, network would then connect the web server to
      the outside world to serve data to, but the outside world cannot
      connect to the database.
    </p>
    <p>
      To enable a host-only network interface for a virtual machine, do
      either of the following:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Go to the <b outputclass="bold">Network</b> page in the
          virtual machine's <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b>
          dialog and select an <b outputclass="bold">Adapter</b>
          tab. Ensure that the <b outputclass="bold">Enable Network
          Adapter</b> check box is selected and choose
          <b outputclass="bold">Host-Only Adapter</b> for the
          <b outputclass="bold">Attached To</b> field.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          On the command line, use <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm
         vmname --nic <varname>x</varname> hostonly</userinput>. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      For host-only networking, as with internal networking, you may
      find the DHCP server useful that is built into Oracle VM VirtualBox.
      This is enabled by default and manages the IP addresses in the
      host-only network. Without the DHCP server you would need to
      configure all IP addresses statically.
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          In VirtualBox Manager you can configure the DHCP server by choosing
          <b outputclass="bold">File</b>,
          <b outputclass="bold">Tools</b>,
          <b outputclass="bold">Network Manager</b>. The Network
          Manager window lists all host-only networks which are
          presently in use. Select the network name and then use the
          <b outputclass="bold">DHCP Server</b> tab to configure
          DHCP server settings. See <xref href="network-manager.dita#network-manager"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Alternatively, you can use the <userinput>VBoxManage
          dhcpserver</userinput> command. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage-dhcpserver.dita"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <note>
      <p>
        On Linux and macOS hosts the number of host-only interfaces is
        limited to 128. There is no such limit for Oracle Solaris and
        Windows hosts.
      </p>
    </note>
    <p>
      On Linux, macOS and Solaris Oracle VM VirtualBox will only allow IP
      addresses in 192.168.56.0/21 range to be assigned to host-only
      adapters. For IPv6 only link-local addresses are allowed. If other
      ranges are desired, they can be enabled by creating
      <filepath>/etc/vbox/networks.conf</filepath> and specifying
      allowed ranges there. For example, to allow 10.0.0.0/8 and
      192.168.0.0/16 IPv4 ranges as well as 2001::/64 range put the
      following lines into <filepath>/etc/vbox/networks.conf</filepath>:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">      * 10.0.0.0/8 192.168.0.0/16
      * 2001::/64
      </pre>
    <p>
      Lines starting with the hash <userinput>#</userinput> are ignored. The
      following example allows any addresses, effectively disabling
      range control:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">      * 0.0.0.0/0 ::/0
      </pre>
    <p>
      If the file exists, but no ranges are specified in it, no
      addresses will be assigned to host-only adapters. The following
      example effectively disables all ranges:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">      # No addresses are allowed for host-only adapters
      </pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
