<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_performance">
            <title>Improving Network Performance</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox provides a variety of virtual network adapters that
      can be attached to the host's network in a number of ways.
      Depending on which types of adapters and attachments are used the
      network performance will be different. Performance-wise the virtio
      network adapter is preferable over Intel PRO/1000 emulated
      adapters, which are preferred over the PCNet family of adapters.
      Both virtio and Intel PRO/1000 adapters enjoy the benefit of
      segmentation and checksum offloading. Segmentation offloading is
      essential for high performance as it allows for less context
      switches, dramatically increasing the sizes of packets that cross
      the VM/host boundary.
    </p>
               <note>
                  <p>
        Neither virtio nor Intel PRO/1000 drivers for Windows XP support
        segmentation offloading. Therefore Windows XP guests never reach
        the same transmission rates as other guest types. Refer to MS
        Knowledge base article 842264 for additional information.
      </p>
               </note>
               <p>
      Three attachment types: Internal, Bridged, and Host-Only, have
      nearly identical performance. The Internal type is a little bit
      faster and uses less CPU cycles as the packets never reach the
      host's network stack. The NAT attachment type is the slowest and
      most secure of all attachment types, as it provides network
      address translation. The generic driver attachment is special and
      cannot be considered as an alternative to other attachment types.
    </p>
               <p>
      The number of CPUs assigned to VM does not improve network
      performance and in some cases may hurt it due to increased
      concurrency in the guest.
    </p>
               <p>
      Here is a short summary of things to check in order to improve
      network performance:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Whenever possible use the virtio network adapter. Otherwise,
          use one of the Intel PRO/1000 adapters.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Use a Bridged attachment instead of NAT.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Make sure segmentation offloading is enabled in the guest OS.
          Usually it will be enabled by default. You can check and
          modify offloading settings using the
          <userinput>ethtool</userinput> command on Linux guests.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Perform a full detailed analysis of network traffic on the
          VM's network adaptor using a third party tool such as
          Wireshark. To do this, a promiscuous mode policy needs to be
          used on the VM's network adaptor. Use of this mode is only
          possible on the following network types: NAT Network, Bridged
          Adapter, Internal Network, and Host-Only Adapter.
        </p>
                     <p>
          To setup a promiscuous mode policy, either select from the
          drop down list located in the <b outputclass="bold">Network
          Settings</b> dialog for the network adaptor or use the
          command line tool <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>. See
          <xref href="man_VBoxManage-modifyvm.dita#vboxmanage-modifyvm"/>.
        </p>
                     <p>
          Promiscuous mode policies are as follows:
        </p>
                     <ul>
                        <li>
                           <p>
                              <codeph>deny</codeph>, which hides any traffic not
              intended for the VM's network adaptor. This is the default
              setting.
            </p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p>
                              <codeph>allow-vms</codeph>, which hides all host traffic
              from the VM's network adaptor, but allows it to see
              traffic from and to other VMs.
            </p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p>
                              <codeph>allow-all</codeph>, which removes all
              restrictions. The VM's network adaptor sees all traffic.
            </p>
                        </li>
                     </ul>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </body>
            
         </topic>
