<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="network_internal">
  <title>Internal Networking</title>

  <body>
    <p>
      Internal Networking is similar to bridged networking in that the
      VM can directly communicate with the outside world. However, the
      outside world is limited to other VMs on the same host which
      connect to the same internal network.
    </p>
    <p>
      Even though technically, everything that can be done using
      internal networking can also be done using bridged networking,
      there are security advantages with internal networking. In bridged
      networking mode, all traffic goes through a physical interface of
      the host system. It is therefore possible to attach a packet
      sniffer such as Wireshark to the host interface and log all
      traffic that goes over it. If, for any reason, you prefer two or
      more VMs on the same machine to communicate privately, hiding
      their data from both the host system and the user, bridged
      networking therefore is not an option.
    </p>
    <p>
      Internal networks are created automatically as needed. There is no
      central configuration. Every internal network is identified simply
      by its name. Once there is more than one active virtual network
      card with the same internal network ID, the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> support
      driver will automatically <i>wire</i> the cards and
      act as a network switch. The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> support driver
      implements a complete Ethernet switch and supports both
      broadcast/multicast frames and promiscuous mode.
    </p>
    <p>
      In order to attach a VM's network card to an internal network, set
      its networking mode to Internal Networking. There are two ways to
      accomplish this:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Use the VM's <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window
          in <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/>. In the <b outputclass="bold">Network</b>
          category of the Settings window, select
          <b outputclass="bold">Internal Network</b> from the
          drop-down list of networking modes. Select the name of an
          existing internal network from the drop-down list below, or
          enter a new name into the
          <b outputclass="bold">Name</b> field.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Use the command line, for example:
        </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --nic&lt;x&gt; intnet</pre>
        <p>
          Optionally, you can specify a network name with the command:
        </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "VM name" --intnet&lt;x&gt; "network name"</pre>
        <p>
          If you do not specify a network name, the network card will be
          attached to the network <codeph>intnet</codeph> by default.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Unless you configure the virtual network cards in the guest operating systems that are
      participating in the internal network to use static IP addresses, you may want to use the DHCP
      server that is built into <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> to manage IP addresses for the internal
      network. See <xref href="vboxmanage-dhcpserver.dita"/>.
    </p>
    <p>
      As a security measure, by default, the Linux implementation of
      internal networking only allows VMs running under the same user ID
      to establish an internal network. However, it is possible to
      create a shared internal networking interface, accessible by users
      with different user IDs.
    </p>
  </body>

</topic>
