<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="nichardware">
  <title>Virtual Networking Hardware</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      For each card, you can individually select what kind of
      <i>hardware</i> will be presented to the virtual
      machine. Oracle VM VirtualBox can virtualize the following types of
      networking hardware:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          AMD PCNet PCI II (Am79C970A)
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          AMD PCNet FAST III (Am79C973), the default setting
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Intel PRO/1000 MT Desktop (82540EM)
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Intel PRO/1000 T Server (82543GC)
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Intel PRO/1000 MT Server (82545EM)
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Paravirtualized network adapter (virtio-net)
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      The PCNet FAST III is the default because it is supported by
      nearly all operating systems, as well as by the GNU GRUB boot
      manager. As an exception, the Intel PRO/1000 family adapters are
      chosen for some guest operating system types that no longer ship
      with drivers for the PCNet card, such as Windows Vista.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Intel PRO/1000 MT Desktop type works with Windows Vista and
      later versions. The T Server variant of the Intel PRO/1000 card is
      recognized by Windows XP guests without additional driver
      installation. The MT Server variant facilitates OVF imports from
      other platforms.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Paravirtualized network adapter (virtio-net) is special. If
      you select this adapter, then Oracle VM VirtualBox does
      <i>not</i> virtualize common networking hardware
      that is supported by common guest operating systems. Instead,
      Oracle VM VirtualBox expects a special software interface for
      virtualized environments to be provided by the guest, thus
      avoiding the complexity of emulating networking hardware and
      improving network performance. Oracle VM VirtualBox provides support for
      the industry-standard <i>virtio</i> networking
      drivers, which are part of the open source KVM project.
    </p>
    <p>
      The virtio networking drivers are available for the following
      guest operating systems:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Linux kernels version 2.6.25 or later can be configured to
          provide virtio support. Some distributions have also
          back-ported virtio to older kernels.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          For Windows 2000, XP, and Vista, virtio drivers can be
          downloaded and installed from the KVM project web page:
        </p>
        <p><ph>http://www.linux-kvm.org/page/WindowsGuestDrivers</ph>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox also has limited support for <i>jumbo
      frames</i>. These are networking packets with more than
      1500 bytes of data, provided that you use the Intel card
      virtualization and bridged networking. Jumbo frames are not
      supported with the AMD networking devices. In those cases, jumbo
      packets will silently be dropped for both the transmit and the
      receive direction. Guest operating systems trying to use this
      feature will observe this as a packet loss, which may lead to
      unexpected application behavior in the guest. This does not cause
      problems with guest operating systems in their default
      configuration, as jumbo frames need to be explicitly enabled.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
