<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="otherextpacks">
  <title>Other Extension Packs</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Another extension pack called VNC is available. This extension
      pack is open source and replaces the previous integration of the
      VNC remote access protocol. This is experimental code, and is
      initially available in the Oracle VM VirtualBox source code package
      only. It is to a large portion code contributed by users, and is
      not supported in any way by Oracle.
    </p>
    <p>
      The keyboard handling is severely limited, and only the US
      keyboard layout works. Other keyboard layouts will have at least
      some keys which produce the wrong results, often with quite
      surprising effects, and for layouts which have significant
      differences to the US keyboard layout it is most likely unusable.
    </p>
    <p>
      It is possible to install both the Oracle VM VirtualBox Extension Pack
      and VNC, but only one VRDE module can be active at any time. The
      following command switches to the VNC VRDE module in VNC:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setproperty vrdeextpack VNC</pre>
    <p>
      Configuring the remote access works very similarly to VRDP, see
      <xref href="vrde.dita#vrde"/>, with some limitations. VNC does not
      support specifying several port numbers, and the authentication is
      done differently. VNC can only deal with password authentication,
      and there is no option to use password hashes. This leaves no
      other choice than having a clear-text password in the VM
      configuration, which can be set with the following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --vrde-property VNCPassword=secret</pre>
    <p>
      The user is responsible for keeping this password secret, and it
      should be removed when a VM configuration is passed to another
      person, for whatever purpose. Some VNC servers claim to have
      encrypted passwords in the configuration. This is not true
      encryption, it is only concealing the passwords, which is only as
      secure as using clear-text passwords.
    </p>
    <p>
      The following command switches back to VRDP, if installed:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setproperty vrdeextpack "Oracle VM VirtualBox Extension Pack"</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
