<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ovf-export-appliance">
  <title>Exporting an Appliance in OVF Format</title>

  <body>
    <p>
        The following steps show how to export an appliance in OVF
        format.
      </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
            Select <b outputclass="bold">File</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold"> Export Appliance</b> to
            display the <b outputclass="bold">Export Virtual
            Appliance</b> wizard.
          </p>
        <p>
            On the initial <b outputclass="bold">Virtual
            Machines</b> page, you can combine several VMs into
            an OVF appliance.
          </p>
        <p>
            Select one or more VMs to export, and click
            <b outputclass="bold">Next</b>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            The <b outputclass="bold">Format Settings</b> page
            enables you to configure the following settings:
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Format:</b> Selects the
                <b outputclass="bold">Open Virtualization
                Format</b> value for the output files.
              </p>
            <p>
                The <b outputclass="bold"><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/></b> value exports
                the appliance to <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/oci"/>. See
                <xref href="cloud-export-oci.dita#cloud-export-oci"/>.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">File:</b> Selects the
                location in which to store the exported files.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">MAC Address Policy:</b>
                Specifies whether to retain or reassign network card MAC
                addresses on export.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Write Manifest File:</b>
                Enables you to include a manifest file in the exported
                archive file.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Include ISO Image
                Files:</b> Enables you to include ISO image files
                in the exported archive file.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Click <b outputclass="bold">Next</b> to show the
            <b outputclass="bold">Appliance Settings</b> page.
          </p>
        <p>
            You can edit settings for the virtual appliance. For
            example, you can change the name of the virtual appliance or
            add product information, such as vendor details or license
            text.
          </p>
        <p>
            Double-click the appropriate field to change its value.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Click <b outputclass="bold">Finish</b> to begin the
            export process. Note that this operation might take several
            minutes.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <p>
      You can use the <userinput>VBoxManage export</userinput> command to export an appliance. See
      <xref href="vboxmanage-export.dita"/>.
    </p>
  </body>

</topic>
