<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ovf-about">
  <title>About the OVF Format</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        OVF is a cross-platform standard supported by many
        virtualization products which enables the creation of ready-made
        virtual machines that can then be imported into a hypervisor
        such as Oracle VM VirtualBox. Oracle VM VirtualBox makes OVF import and
        export easy to do, using VirtualBox Manager or the command-line
        interface.
      </p>
    <p>
        Using OVF enables packaging of <i>virtual
        appliances</i>. These are disk images, together with
        configuration settings that can be distributed easily. This way
        one can offer complete ready-to-use software packages, including
        OSes with applications, that need no configuration or
        installation except for importing into Oracle VM VirtualBox.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          The OVF standard is complex, and support in Oracle VM VirtualBox is
          an ongoing process. In particular, no guarantee is made that
          Oracle VM VirtualBox supports all appliances created by other
          virtualization software. For a list of known limitations, see
          <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref>.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        Appliances in OVF format can appear in the following variants:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            They can come in several files, as one or several disk
            images, typically in the widely-used VMDK format. See
            <xref href="vdidetails.dita"/>. They also include a textual
            description file in an XML dialect with an
            <filepath>.ovf</filepath> extension. These files must then
            reside in the same directory for Oracle VM VirtualBox to be able
            to import them.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Alternatively, the above files can be packed together into a
            single archive file, typically with an
            <filepath>.ova</filepath> extension. Such archive files use
            a variant of the TAR archive format and can therefore be
            unpacked outside of Oracle VM VirtualBox with any utility that can
            unpack standard TAR files.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <note>
      <p>
          OVF cannot describe snapshots that were taken for a virtual
          machine. As a result, when you export a virtual machine that
          has snapshots, only the current state of the machine will be
          exported. The disk images in the export will have a
          <i>flattened</i> state identical to the current
          state of the virtual machine.
        </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
