<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="pcspeaker_passthrough">
  <title>PC Speaker Passthrough</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      As an experimental feature, primarily due to being limited to
      Linux host only and unknown Linux distribution coverage,
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> supports passing through the PC speaker to the
      host. The PC speaker, sometimes called the system speaker, is a
      way to produce audible feedback such as beeps without the need for
      regular audio and sound card support.
    </p>
    <p>
      The PC speaker passthrough feature in <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> handles beeps
      only. Advanced PC speaker use by the VM, such as PCM audio, will
      not work, resulting in undefined host behavior.
    </p>
    <p>
      Producing beeps on Linux is a very complex topic. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
      offers a collection of options, in an attempt to make this work
      deterministically and reliably on as many Linux distributions and
      system configurations as possible. These are summarized in the
      following table.
    </p>
    <table id="table-pcspeaker-config">
      <title>PC Speaker Configuration Options</title>
      <desc>PC Speaker Configuration Options</desc>
      <tgroup cols="3">      
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                <b outputclass="bold">Code</b>
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                <b outputclass="bold">Device</b>
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                <b outputclass="bold">Notes</b>
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                1
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                <filepath>/dev/input/by-path/platform-pcspkr-event-spkr</filepath>
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                Direct host PC speaker use.
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                2
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <filepath>/dev/tty</filepath>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                Uses the terminal association of the VM process. VM
                needs to be started on a virtual console.
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                3
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p><filepath>/dev/tty0</filepath> or
                <filepath>/dev/vc/0</filepath>
                              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                Can only be used by user <codeph>root</codeph> or
                users with <codeph>cap_sys_tty_config</codeph>
                capability.
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                9
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                A user-specified console or evdev device path.
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                As for codes 1 to 3, but with a custom device path.
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                70
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                <filepath>/dev/tty</filepath>
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                Standard beep only. Loses frequency and length. See code
                2.
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                79
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                A user-specified terminal device path.
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                As for code 70, but with a custom device path.
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>
              <p>
                100
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                All of the above.
              </p>
            </entry>
            <entry>
              <p>
                Tries all the available codes.
              </p>
            </entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p>
      To enable PC speaker passthrough use the following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> "VBoxInternal/Devices/i8254/0/Config/PassthroughSpeaker" <varname>N</varname>
               </pre>
    <p>
      Replace <varname>N</varname> with the code representing
      the case you want to use. Changing this setting takes effect when
      you next start the VM. It is safe to enable PC speaker passthrough
      on all host OSes. It will only have an effect on Linux.
    </p>
    <p>
      The VM log file, <filepath>VBox.log</filepath>, contains lines
      with the prefix <codeph>PIT: speaker:</codeph> showing the PC
      speaker passthrough setup activities. It gives hints which device
      it picked or why it failed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Enabling PC speaker passthrough for the VM is usually the simple
      part. The real difficulty is making sure that <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can
      access the necessary device, because in a typical Linux install
      most of them can only be accessed by user <codeph>root</codeph>.
      You should follow the preferred way to persistently change this,
      such as by referring to your distribution's documentation. Since
      there are countless Linux distribution variants, we can only give
      the general hints that there is often a way to give the X11
      session user access to additional devices, or you need to find a
      working solution using a udev configuration file. If everything
      fails you might try setting the permissions using a script which
      is run late enough in the host system startup.
    </p>
    <p>
      Sometimes additional rules are applied by the kernel to limit
      access. For example, that the VM process must have the same
      controlling terminal as the device configured to be used for
      beeping, something which is often very difficult to achieve for
      GUI applications such as <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>. The table above contains
      some hints, but in general refer to the Linux documentation.
    </p>
    <p>
      If you have trouble getting any beeps even if the device
      permissions are set up and VBox.log confirms that it uses evdev or
      console for the PC speaker control, check if your system has a PC
      speaker. Some systems do not have one. Other complications can
      arise from Linux rerouting the PC speaker output to a sound card.
      Check if the beeps are audible if you connect speakers to your
      sound card. Today almost all systems have one. Finally, check if
      the audio mixer control has a channel named "beep", which could be
      hidden in the mixer settings, and that it is not muted.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
