<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="pot-insecure">
  <title>Potentially Insecure Operations</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The following features of Oracle VM VirtualBox can present security
        problems:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Enabling 3D graphics using the Guest Additions exposes the
            host to additional security risks. See
            <xref href="guestadd-3d.dita">Hardware 3D Acceleration (OpenGL and Direct3D 8/9)</xref>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            When teleporting a machine, the data stream through which
            the machine's memory contents are transferred from one host
            to another is not encrypted. A third party with access to
            the network through which the data is transferred could
            therefore intercept that data. An SSH tunnel could be used
            to secure the connection between the two hosts. But when
            considering teleporting a VM over an untrusted network the
            first question to answer is how both VMs can securely access
            the same virtual disk image with a reasonable performance.
          </p>
        <p>
        If the network is not sufficiently trusted, the password
        should be changed for each teleportation as a third party
        could detect the unecrypted password hash when it is
        transferred between the target and source host machines.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            When <xref href="guestadd-pagefusion.dita">Page Fusion</xref>,
            is enabled, it is possible that a side-channel opens up that
            enables a malicious guest to determine the address space of
            another VM running on the same host layout. For example,
            where DLLs are typically loaded. This information leak in
            itself is harmless, however the malicious guest may use it
            to optimize attack against that VM through unrelated attack
            vectors. It is recommended to only enable Page Fusion if you
            do not think this is a concern in your setup.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            When using the Oracle VM VirtualBox web service to control an
            Oracle VM VirtualBox host remotely, connections to the web
            service, over which the API calls are transferred using SOAP
            XML, are not encrypted. They use plain HTTP by default. This
            is a potential security risk. For details about the web
            service, see <xref href="VirtualBoxAPI.dita#VirtualBoxAPI"/>.
          </p>
        <p>
            The web services are not started by default. See
            <xref href="vboxwebsrv-daemon.dita#vboxwebsrv-daemon"/> to find out how to start
            this service and how to enable SSL/TLS support. It has to be
            started as a regular user and only the VMs of that user can
            be controlled. By default, the service binds to localhost
            preventing any remote connection.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Traffic sent over a UDP Tunnel network attachment is not
            encrypted. You can either encrypt it on the host network
            level, with IPsec, or use encrypted protocols in the guest
            network, such as SSH. The security properties are similar to
            bridged Ethernet.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Because of shortcomings in older Windows versions, using
            Oracle VM VirtualBox on Windows versions older than Vista with
            Service Pack 1 is not recommended.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
