<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="preferences">
  <title>Preferences</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      The Preferences window offers a selection of settings, which apply
      to all virtual machines of the current user.
    </p>
    <p>
      To display the Preferences window, do either of the following:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          Select <b outputclass="bold">File</b>,
          <b outputclass="bold">Preferences</b>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Click <b outputclass="bold">Preferences</b> on the
          Welcome screen in VirtualBox Manager.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      The following settings are available:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">General.</b> Enables you to
          specify the default folder or directory for VM files, and the
          VRDP Authentication Library.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Input.</b> Enables you to specify
          keyboard shortcuts, such as the <b outputclass="bold">Host
          key</b>. This is the key that toggles whether the
          cursor is in the focus of the VM or the Host OS windows, see
          <xref href="keyb_mouse_normal.dita#keyb_mouse_normal"/>. The Host key is also used
          to trigger certain VM actions, see
          <xref href="specialcharacters.dita#specialcharacters"/>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Update.</b> Enables you to
          specify various settings for Automatic Updates.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Language.</b> Enables you to
          specify the language used for menus, labels, and text in
          VirtualBox Manager.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Display.</b> Enables you to
          specify the screen resolution, and its width and height. A
          default scale factor can be specified for all guest screens.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Proxy.</b> Enables you to
          configure an HTTP Proxy Server.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Interface.</b> Enables you to
          select a color theme for the VirtualBox Manager user interface.
        </p>
        <note>
          <p>
            This setting is only available on Windows host platforms.
          </p>
        </note>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
