<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="privacy">
  <title>Oracle VM VirtualBox Privacy Information</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
    Version 5, Dec 13, 2012
  </p>
    <p>
    The Oracle Privacy Policies posted on
    <ph>https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/privacy-policy.html</ph>
    apply to your personal data collected and used by Oracle. The
    following privacy information describes in more detail which
    information is exchanged between the Oracle VM VirtualBox application and
    Oracle, and which information is collected by the virtualbox.org
    website.
  </p>
    <p><b outputclass="bold">§ 1 virtualbox.org.</b> The
    "virtualbox.org" website logs anonymous usage information such as
    your IP address, geographical location, browser type, referral
    source, length of visit and number of page views while you visit
    (collectively, "anonymous data"). In addition, but only if you
    choose to register, the website's bug tracking and forum services
    store the data you choose to reveal upon registration, such as your
    user name and contact information.
  </p>
    <p><b outputclass="bold">§ 2 Cookies.</b> The virtualbox.org
    website, the bug tracker and the forum services use cookies to
    identify and track the visiting web browser and, if you have
    registered, to facilitate login. Most browsers allow you to refuse
    to accept cookies. While you can still visit the website with
    cookies disabled, logging into the bug tracker and forum services
    will most likely not work without them.
  </p>
    <p><b outputclass="bold">§ 3 Oracle VM VirtualBox registration
    process.</b> The Oracle VM VirtualBox application may ask that the
    user optionally register with Oracle. If you choose to register,
    your name, e-mail address, country and company will be submitted to
    Oracle and stored together with the IP address of the submitter as
    well as product version and platform being used.
  </p>
    <p><b outputclass="bold">§ 4 Update notifications.</b> The
    Oracle VM VirtualBox application may contact Oracle to find out whether a
    new version of Oracle VM VirtualBox has been released and notify the user
    if that is the case. In the process, anonymous data such as your IP
    address and a non-identifying counter, together with the product
    version and the platform being used, is sent so that the server can
    find out whether an update is available. By default, this check is
    performed once a day. You change this interval or disable these
    checks altogether in the Oracle VM VirtualBox preferences.
  </p>
    <p><b outputclass="bold">§ 5 Usage of personal information.</b>
    Oracle may use anonymous and personal data collected by the means
    above for statistical purposes as well as to automatically inform
    you about new notices related to your posts on the bug tracker and
    forum services, to administer the website and to contact you due to
    technical issues. Oracle may also inform you about new product
    releases related to Oracle VM VirtualBox.
  </p>
    <p>
    In no event will personal data without your express consent be
    provided to any third parties, unless Oracle may be required to do
    so by law or in connection with legal proceedings.
  </p>
    <p><b outputclass="bold">§ 6 Updates.</b> Oracle may update the
    privacy policy at any time by posting a new version at
    <ph>https://www.oracle.com/legal/privacy/privacy-policy.html</ph>
    and the privacy information will be kept up to date in the
    documentation which comes with the Oracle VM VirtualBox application. You
    should check these places occasionally to ensure you are happy with
    any changes.
  </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
