<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="rawdisk-access-entire-physical-disk">
  <title>Access to Entire Physical Hard Disk</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          While this variant is the simplest to set up, you must be
          aware that this will give a guest operating system direct and
          full access to an <i>entire physical disk</i>.
          If your <i>host</i> operating system is also
          booted from this disk, please take special care to not access
          the partition from the guest at all. On the positive side, the
          physical disk can be repartitioned in arbitrary ways without
          having to recreate the image file that gives access to the raw
          disk.
        </p>
    <p>
          On a Linux host, to create an image that represents an entire
          physical hard disk which will not contain any actual data, as
          this will all be stored on the physical disk, use the
          following command:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage createmedium disk --filename <varname>path-to-file</varname>.vmdk --format=VMDK
 --variant RawDisk --property RawDrive=/dev/sda</pre>
    <p>
          This creates the
          <filepath><varname>path-to-file</varname>.vmdk</filepath>
          file image that must be an absolute path. All data is read and
          written from <filepath>/dev/sda</filepath>.
        </p>
    <p>
          On a Windows host, instead of the above device specification,
          for example use <filepath>\\.\PhysicalDrive0</filepath>. On a
          macOS host, instead of the above device specification use for
          example <filepath>/dev/rdisk1</filepath>. Note that on Mac OS
          X you can only get access to an entire disk if no volume is
          mounted from it.
        </p>
    <p>
          Creating the image requires read/write access for the given
          device. Read/write access is also later needed when using the
          image from a virtual machine. On some host platforms, such as
          Windows, raw disk access may be restricted and not permitted
          by the host OS in some situations.
        </p>
    <p>
          Just like with regular disk images, this does not
          automatically attach the newly created image to a virtual
          machine. This can be done as follows:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage storageattach WindowsXP --storagectl "IDE Controller" \
 --port 0 --device 0 --type hdd --medium <varname>path-to-file</varname>.vmdk</pre>
    <p>
          When this is done the selected virtual machine will boot from
          the specified physical disk.
        </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
