<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="rawdisk-access-disk-partitions">
  <title>Access to Individual Physical Hard Disk Partitions</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
          This <i>raw partition support</i> is quite
          similar to the full hard disk access described above. However,
          in this case, any partitioning information will be stored
          inside the VMDK image. This means that you can install a
          different boot loader in the virtual hard disk without
          affecting the host's partitioning information. While the guest
          will be able to <i>see</i> all partitions that
          exist on the physical disk, access will be filtered in that
          reading from partitions for which no access is allowed the
          partitions will only yield zeroes, and all writes to them are
          ignored.
        </p>
    <p>
          To create a special image for raw partition support, which
          will contain a small amount of data, on a Linux host, use the
          command:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage createmedium disk --filename <varname>path-to-file</varname>.vmdk --format=VMDK
--variant RawDisk --property RawDrive=/dev/sda --property Partitions=1,5</pre>
    <p>
          The command is identical to the one for full hard disk access,
          except for the additional <codeph>--property</codeph>
          Partitions=1,5 parameter. This example would create
          the image
          <filepath><varname>path-to-file</varname>.vmdk</filepath>,
          which must be absolute, and partitions 1 and 5 of
          <filepath>/dev/sda</filepath> would be made accessible to the
          guest.
        </p>
    <p>
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses the same partition numbering as your Linux
          host. As a result, the numbers given in the above example
          would refer to the first primary partition and the first
          logical drive in the extended partition, respectively.
        </p>
    <p>
          On a Windows host, instead of the above device specification,
          use for example <filepath>\\.\PhysicalDrive0</filepath>. On a
          macOS host, instead of the above device specification use
          <filepath>/dev/rdisk1</filepath>, for example. Note that on OS
          X you can only use partitions which are not mounted. Unmount
          the respective disk first using <i>diskutil unmountDisk
          <filepath>/dev/diskX</filepath>
                        </i>. Partition numbers
          are the same on Linux, Windows, and macOS hosts.
        </p>
    <p>
          The numbers for the list of partitions can be taken from the
          output of the following command:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage list hostdrives</pre>
    <p>
          The output lists available drives and their partitions with
          the partition types and sizes to give the user enough
          information to identify the partitions necessary for the
          guest.
        </p>
    <p>
          Images which give access to individual partitions are specific
          to a particular host disk setup. You cannot transfer these
          images to another host. Also, whenever the host partitioning
          changes, the image <i>must be recreated</i>.
        </p>
    <p>
          Creating the image requires read/write access for the given
          device. Read/write access is also later needed when using the
          image from a virtual machine. If this is not feasible, there
          is a special variant for raw partition access, currently only
          available on Linux hosts, that avoids having to give the
          current user access to the entire disk. To set up such an
          image, use:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage createmedium disk --filename <varname>path-to-file</varname>.vmdk --format=VMDK
--variant RawDisk --property RawDrive=/dev/sda --property Partitions=1,5
--property Relative=1</pre>
    <p>
          When used from a virtual machine, the image will then refer
          not to the entire disk, but only to the individual partitions.
          In this example, <filepath>/dev/sda1</filepath> and
          <filepath>/dev/sda5</filepath>. As a consequence, read/write
          access is only required for the affected partitions, not for
          the entire disk. During creation however, read-only access to
          the entire disk is required to obtain the partitioning
          information.
        </p>
    <p>
          In some configurations it may be necessary to change the MBR
          code of the created image. For example, to replace the Linux
          boot loader that is used on the host by another boot loader.
          This enables for example the guest to boot directly to
          Windows, while the host boots Linux from the "same" disk. For
          this purpose the <codeph>--property-file</codeph>
          BootSector=<varname>path-to-file-with-boot-sector</varname>
          parameter is provided. It specifies a file name from which to
          take the MBR code. The partition table is not modified at all,
          so a MBR file from a system with totally different
          partitioning can be used. An example of this is:
        </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage createmedium disk --filename <varname>path-to-file</varname>.vmdk --format=VMDK
--variant RawDisk --property RawDrive=/dev/sda --property Partitions=1,5
--property-file BootSector=winxp.mbr</pre>
    <p>
          The modified MBR will be stored inside the image, not on the
          host disk.
        </p>
    <p>
          The created image can be attached to a storage controller in a
          VM configuration as usual.
        </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
