<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="rawdisk">
  <title>Using a Raw Host Hard Disk From a Guest</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        As an alternative to using virtual disk images as described in
        <xref href="storage.dita">Virtual Storage</xref>, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can also present
        either entire physical hard disks or selected partitions as
        virtual disks to virtual machines.
      </p>
    <p>
        With <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, this type of access is called <i>raw
        hard disk access</i>. It enables a guest operating system
        to access its virtual hard disk without going through the host
        OS file system. The actual performance difference for image
        files compared to raw disk varies greatly depending on the
        overhead of the host file system, whether dynamically growing
        images are used, and on host OS caching strategies. The caching
        indirectly also affects other aspects such as failure behavior.
        For example, whether the virtual disk contains all data written
        before a host OS crash. Consult your host OS documentation for
        details on this.
      </p>
    <note type="attention">
      <p>
          Raw hard disk access is for expert users only. Incorrect use
          or use of an outdated configuration can lead to
          <b outputclass="bold">total loss of data</b> on the
          physical disk. Most importantly, <i>do not</i>
          attempt to boot the partition with the currently running host
          operating system in a guest. This will lead to severe data
          corruption.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        Raw hard disk access, both for entire disks and individual
        partitions, is implemented as part of the VMDK image format
        support. As a result, you will need to create a special VMDK
        image file which defines where the data will be stored. After
        creating such a special VMDK image, you can use it like a
        regular virtual disk image. For example, you can use the Virtual
        Media Manager, see <xref href="virtual-media-manager.dita">The Virtual Media Manager</xref>, or
        <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> to assign the image to a virtual
        machine.
      </p>
  </body>
</topic>
