<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="rdp-viewers">
  <title>Common Third-Party RDP Viewers</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Since VRDP is backwards-compatible to RDP, you can use any
        standard RDP viewer to connect to such a remote virtual machine.
        For this to work, you must specify the IP address of your
        <i>host</i> system, not of the virtual machine, as
        the server address to connect to. You must also specify the port
        number that the VRDP server is using.
      </p>
    <p>
        The following examples are for the most common RDP viewers:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            On Windows, you can use the Microsoft Terminal Services
            Connector, <userinput>mstsc.exe</userinput>, that is included
            with Windows. Press the Windows key + R, to display the
            <b outputclass="bold">Run</b> dialog. Enter
            <userinput>mstsc</userinput> to start the program. You can also
            find the program in <b outputclass="bold">Start</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">All Programs</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Accessories</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Remote Desktop Connection</b>.
            If you use the <b outputclass="bold">Run</b> dialog,
            you can enter options directly. For example:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">mstsc 1.2.3.4:3389</pre>
        <p>
            Replace <codeph>1.2.3.4</codeph> with the host IP address,
            and <codeph>3389</codeph> with a different port, if
            necessary.
          </p>
        <note>
          <ul>
            <li>
              <p>
                  IPv6 addresses must be enclosed in square brackets to
                  specify a port. For example: <codeph>mstsc
                  [fe80::1:2:3:4]:3389</codeph>
                                 </p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>
                  When connecting to localhost in order to test the
                  connection, the addresses <codeph>localhost</codeph>
                  and <codeph>127.0.0.1</codeph> might not work using
                  <userinput>mstsc.exe</userinput>. Instead, the address
                  <codeph>127.0.0.2[:3389]</codeph> has to be used.
                </p>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            On other systems, you can use the standard open source
            <userinput>rdesktop</userinput> program. This ships with most
            Linux distributions.
          </p>
        <p>
            With <userinput>rdesktop</userinput>, use a command line such as
            the following:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ rdesktop -a 16 -N 1.2.3.4:3389</pre>
        <p>
            Replace <codeph>1.2.3.4</codeph> with the host IP address,
            and <codeph>3389</codeph> with a different port, if
            necessary. The <codeph>-a</codeph> 16 option requests a
            color depth of 16 bits per pixel, which we recommend. For
            best performance, after installation of the guest operating
            system, you should set its display color depth to the same
            value. The <codeph>-N</codeph> option enables use of the
            NumPad keys.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            You can use the Remmina remote desktop client with VRDP.
            This application is included with some Linux distributions,
            such as Debian and Ubuntu.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            If you run the KDE desktop, you can use
            <userinput>krdc</userinput>, the KDE RDP viewer. A typical
            command line is as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ krdc rdp://1.2.3.4:3389</pre>
        <p>
            Replace <codeph>1.2.3.4</codeph> with the host IP address,
            and <codeph>3389</codeph> with a different port, if
            necessary. The <codeph>rdp:// </codeph> prefix is required
            with <userinput>krdc</userinput> to switch it into RDP mode.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            With Sun Ray thin clients you can use
            <userinput>uttsc</userinput>, which is part of the Sun Ray
            Windows Connector package. See the Sun Ray documentation for
            details.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
