<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="security-general">
  <title>General Security Principles</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      The following principles are fundamental to using any application
      securely.
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Keep software up to date</b>. One
          of the principles of good security practise is to keep all
          software versions and patches up to date. Activate the
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> update notification to get notified when a new
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> release is available. When updating
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, do not forget to update the Guest Additions.
          Keep the host operating system as well as the guest operating
          system up to date.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Restrict network access to critical
          services.</b> Use proper means, for instance a
          firewall, to protect your computer and your guests from
          accesses from the outside. Choosing the proper networking mode
          for VMs helps to separate host networking from the guest and
          vice versa.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Follow the principle of least
          privilege.</b> The principle of least privilege states
          that users should be given the least amount of privilege
          necessary to perform their jobs. Always execute <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          as a regular user. We strongly discourage anyone from
          executing <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> with system privileges.
        </p>
        <p>
          Choose restrictive permissions when creating configuration
          files, for instance when creating /etc/default/virtualbox, see
          <xref href="linux_install_opts.dita">Automatic Installation Options</xref>. Mode 0600 is preferred.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Monitor system activity.</b>
          System security builds on three pillars: good security
          protocols, proper system configuration and system monitoring.
          Auditing and reviewing audit records address the third
          requirement. Each component within a system has some degree of
          monitoring capability. Follow audit advice in this document
          and regularly monitor audit records.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Keep up to date on latest security
          information.</b> Oracle continually improves its
          software and documentation. Check this note yearly for
          revisions.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
