<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="serialports">
  <title>Serial Ports</title>

  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> supports the use of virtual serial ports in a
      virtual machine.
    </p>
    <p>
      Ever since the original IBM PC, personal computers have been
      equipped with one or two serial ports, also called COM ports by
      DOS and Windows. Serial ports were commonly used with modems, and
      some computer mice used to be connected to serial ports before USB
      became commonplace.
    </p>
    <p>
      While serial ports are no longer as common as they used to be,
      there are still some important uses left for them. For example,
      serial ports can be used to set up a primitive network over a
      null-modem cable, in case Ethernet is not available. Also, serial
      ports are indispensable for system programmers needing to do
      kernel debugging, since kernel debugging software usually
      interacts with developers over a serial port. With virtual serial
      ports, system programmers can do kernel debugging on a virtual
      machine instead of needing a real computer to connect to.
    </p>
    <p>
      If a virtual serial port is enabled, the guest OS sees a standard
      16550A compatible UART device. Other UART types can be configured
      using the <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm</userinput> command. Both
      receiving and transmitting data is supported. How this virtual
      serial port is then connected to the host is configurable, and the
      details depend on your host OS.
    </p>
    <p>
      You can use either the Settings tabs or the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command to set
      up virtual serial ports. For the latter, see <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita"/> for
      information on the <codeph>--uart</codeph>, <codeph>--uart-mode</codeph> and
      <codeph>--uart-type</codeph> options.
    </p>
    <p>
      You can configure up to four virtual serial ports per virtual
      machine. For each device, you must set the following:
    </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Port Number:</b> This determines
          the serial port that the virtual machine should see. For best
          results, use the traditional values as follows:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>
              COM1: I/O base 0x3F8, IRQ 4
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              COM2: I/O base 0x2F8, IRQ 3
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              COM3: I/O base 0x3E8, IRQ 4
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
              COM4: I/O base 0x2E8, IRQ 3
            </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>
          You can also configure a user-defined serial port. Enter an
          I/O base address and interrupt (IRQ).
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Port Mode:</b> What the virtual
          port is connected to. For each virtual serial port, you have
          the following options:
        </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Disconnected:</b> The guest
              will see the device, but it will behave as if no cable had
              been connected to it.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Host Device:</b> Connects the
              virtual serial port to a physical serial port on your
              host. On a Windows host, this will be a name like
              <codeph>COM1</codeph>. On Linux or Oracle Solaris hosts,
              it will be a device node like
              <filepath>/dev/ttyS0</filepath>. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> will then
              simply redirect all data received from and sent to the
              virtual serial port to the physical device.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Host Pipe:</b> Configure
              <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> to connect the virtual serial port to a
              software pipe on the host. This depends on your host OS,
              as follows:
            </p>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <p>
                  On a Windows host, data will be sent and received
                  through a named pipe. The pipe name must be in the
                  format
                  <filepath>\\.\pipe\<varname>name</varname>
                                    </filepath>
                  where <varname>name</varname> should identify
                  the virtual machine but may be freely chosen.
                </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                  On a Mac OS, Linux, or Oracle Solaris host, a local
                  domain socket is used instead. The socket filename
                  must be chosen such that the user running
                  <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> has sufficient privileges to create and
                  write to it. The <filepath>/tmp</filepath> directory
                  is often a good candidate.
                </p>
                <p>
                  On Linux there are various tools which can connect to
                  a local domain socket or create one in server mode.
                  The most flexible tool is <userinput>socat</userinput> and
                  is available as part of many distributions.
                </p>
              </li>
            </ul>
            <p>
              In this case, you can configure whether <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
              should create the named pipe, or the local domain socket
              non-Windows hosts, itself or whether <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> should
              assume that the pipe or socket exists already. With the
              <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command-line options, this
              is referred to as server mode or client mode,
              respectively.
            </p>
            <p>
              For a direct connection between two virtual machines,
              corresponding to a null-modem cable, simply configure one
              VM to create a pipe or socket and another to attach to it.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Raw File:</b> Send the
              virtual serial port output to a file. This option is very
              useful for capturing diagnostic output from a guest. Any
              file may be used for this purpose, as long as the user
              running <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> has sufficient privileges to create
              and write to the file.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">TCP:</b> Useful for
              forwarding serial traffic over TCP/IP, acting as a server,
              or it can act as a TCP client connecting to other servers.
              This option enables a remote machine to directly connect
              to the guest's serial port using TCP.
            </p>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <p><b outputclass="bold">TCP Server:</b> Deselect
                  the <b outputclass="bold">Connect to Existing
                  Pipe/Socket</b> check box and specify the port
                  number in the
                  <b outputclass="bold">Path/Address</b> field.
                  This is typically 23 or 2023. Note that on UNIX-like
                  systems you will have to use a port a number greater
                  than 1024 for regular users.
                </p>
                <p>
                  The client can use software such as
                  <userinput>PuTTY</userinput> or the
                  <userinput>telnet</userinput> command line tool to access
                  the TCP Server.
                </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p><b outputclass="bold">TCP Client:</b> To create
                  a virtual null-modem cable over the Internet or LAN,
                  the other side can connect using TCP by specifying
                  <codeph><varname>hostname</varname>:<varname>port</varname></codeph>
                  in the <b outputclass="bold">Path/Address</b>
                  field. The TCP socket will act in client mode if you
                  select the <b outputclass="bold">Connect to Existing
                  Pipe/Socket</b> check box.
                </p>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <p>
      Up to four serial ports can be configured per virtual machine, but
      you can pick any port numbers out of the above. However, serial
      ports cannot reliably share interrupts. If both ports are to be
      used at the same time, they must use different interrupt levels,
      for example COM1 and COM2, but not COM1 and COM3.
    </p>
  </body>

</topic>
