<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-screen">
  <title>Screen Tab</title>
  
  <body>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Video Memory:</b> Sets the size
            of the memory provided by the virtual graphics card
            available to the guest, in MB. As with the main memory, the
            specified amount will be allocated from the host's resident
            memory. Based on the amount of video memory, higher
            resolutions and color depths may be available.
          </p>
        <p>
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/> will show a warning if the amount of video memory
            is too small to be able to switch the VM into full screen
            mode. The minimum value depends on the number of virtual
            monitors, the screen resolution and the color depth of the
            host display as well as on the use of <i>3D
            acceleration</i> and <i>2D video
            acceleration</i>. A rough estimate is
            (<i>color depth</i> / 8) x <i>vertical
            pixels</i> x <i>horizontal pixels</i> x
            <i>number of screens</i> = <i>number of
            bytes</i>. Extra memory may be required if display
            acceleration is used.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Monitor Count:</b> With this
            setting, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can provide more than one virtual
            monitor to a virtual machine. If a guest OS supports
            multiple attached monitors, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can pretend that
            multiple virtual monitors are present. Up to eight such
            virtual monitors are supported.
          </p>
        <p>
            The output of the multiple monitors are displayed on the
            host in multiple VM windows which are running side by side.
            However, in full screen and seamless mode, they use the
            available physical monitors attached to the host. As a
            result, for full screen and seamless modes to work with
            multiple monitors, you will need at least as many physical
            monitors as you have virtual monitors configured, or
            <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> will report an error.
          </p>
        <p>
            You can configure the relationship between guest and host
            monitors using the <b outputclass="bold">View</b>
            menu by pressing Host key + Home when you are in full screen
            or seamless mode.
          </p>
        <p>
            See also <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Scale Factor:</b> Enables
            scaling of the display size. For multiple monitor displays,
            you can set the scale factor for individual monitors, or
            globally for all of the monitors. Use the slider to select a
            scaling factor up to 200%.
          </p>
        <p>
            You can set a default scale factor for all VMs. Use the
            <b outputclass="bold">Display</b> tab in the
            Preferences window.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Graphics Controller:</b>
            Specifies the graphics adapter type used by the guest VM.
            Note that you must install the Guest Additions on the guest
            VM to specify the VBoxSVGA or VMSVGA graphics controller.
            The following options are available:
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">VBoxSVGA:</b> The default
                graphics controller for new VMs that use Windows 7 or
                later.
              </p>
            <p>
                This graphics controller improves performance and 3D
                support when compared to the legacy VBoxVGA option.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">VBoxVGA:</b> Use this
                graphics controller for legacy guest OSes. This is the
                default graphics controller for Windows versions before
                Windows 7 and for Oracle Solaris.
              </p>
            <p>
                3D acceleration is not supported for this graphics
                controller.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">VMSVGA:</b> Use this
                graphics controller to emulate a VMware SVGA graphics
                device. This is the default graphics controller for
                Linux guests.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">None:</b> Does not emulate
                a graphics adapter type.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable 3D Acceleration:</b> If
            a virtual machine has Guest Additions installed, you can
            select here whether the guest should support accelerated 3D
            graphics. See <xref href="guestadd-3d.dita#guestadd-3d"/>.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
