<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-network">
  <title>Network Settings</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      The <b outputclass="bold">Network</b> section in a virtual
      machine's <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window enables
      you to configure how Oracle VM VirtualBox presents virtual network cards
      to your VM, and how they operate.
    </p>
    <p>
      When you first create a virtual machine, Oracle VM VirtualBox by default
      enables one virtual network card and selects the Network Address
      Translation (NAT) mode for it. This way the guest can connect to
      the outside world using the host's networking and the outside
      world can connect to services on the guest which you choose to
      make visible outside of the virtual machine.
    </p>
    <p>
      This default setup is good for the majority of Oracle VM VirtualBox
      users. However, Oracle VM VirtualBox is extremely flexible in how it can
      virtualize networking. It supports many virtual network cards per
      virtual machine. The first four virtual network cards can be
      configured in detail in VirtualBox Manager. Additional network cards can
      be configured using the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command.
    </p>
    <p>
      Many networking options are available. See
      <xref href="networkingdetails.dita#networkingdetails"/> for more information.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
