<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-general-advanced">
  <title>Advanced Tab</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The following settings are available in the
        <b outputclass="bold">Advanced</b> tab:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Snapshot Folder:</b> By
            default, Oracle VM VirtualBox saves snapshot data together with
            your other Oracle VM VirtualBox configuration data. See
            <xref href="vboxconfigdata.dita">Where Oracle VM VirtualBox Stores its Files</xref>. With this setting, you
            can specify any other folder for each VM.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Shared Clipboard:</b> You can
            select here whether the clipboard of the guest OS should be
            shared with that of your host. If you select
            <b outputclass="bold">Bidirectional</b>, then
            Oracle VM VirtualBox will always make sure that both clipboards
            contain the same data. If you select
            <b outputclass="bold">Host to Guest</b> or
            <b outputclass="bold">Guest to Host</b>, then
            Oracle VM VirtualBox will only ever copy clipboard data in one
            direction.
          </p>
        <p>
            Clipboard sharing requires that the Oracle VM VirtualBox Guest
            Additions be installed. In such a case, this setting has no
            effect. See <xref href="guestadditions.dita#guestadditions"/>.
          </p>
        <p>
            For security reasons, the shared clipboard is disabled by
            default. This setting can be changed at any time using the
            <b outputclass="bold">Shared Clipboard</b> menu item
            in the <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b> menu of the
            virtual machine.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Drag and Drop:</b> This setting
            enables support for drag and drop. Select an object, such as
            a file, from the host or guest and directly copy or open it
            on the guest or host. Multiple drag and drop modes for a VM
            enable restricting of access in either direction.
          </p>
        <p>
            For drag and drop to work the Guest Additions need to be
            installed on the guest.
          </p>
        <note>
          <p>
              Drag and drop is disabled by default. This setting can be
              changed at any time using the <b outputclass="bold">Drag
              and Drop</b> menu item in the
              <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b> menu of the
              virtual machine.
            </p>
        </note>
        <p>
            See <xref href="guestadd-dnd.dita#guestadd-dnd"/>.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
