<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-audio">
  <title>Audio Settings</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      The <b outputclass="bold">Audio</b> section in a virtual
      machine's <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window
      determines whether the VM will detect a connected sound card, and
      if the audio output should be played on the host system.
    </p>
    <p>
      To enable audio for a guest, select the
      <b outputclass="bold">Enable Audio</b> check box. The
      following settings are available:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Host Audio Driver:</b> The audio
          driver that <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses on the host.
        </p>
        <p>
          The <b outputclass="bold">Default</b> option is enabled
          by default for all new VMs. This option selects the best audio
          driver for the host platform automatically. This enables you
          to move VMs between different platforms without having to
          change the audio driver.
        </p>
        <p>
          On a Linux host, depending on your host configuration, you can
          select between the OSS, ALSA, or the PulseAudio subsystem. On
          newer Linux distributions, the PulseAudio subsystem is
          preferred.
        </p>
        <p>
          Only OSS is supported on Oracle Solaris hosts. The Oracle
          Solaris Audio audio backend is no longer supported on Oracle
          Solaris hosts.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Audio Controller:</b> You can
          choose between the emulation of an Intel AC'97 controller, an
          Intel HD Audio controller, or a SoundBlaster 16 card.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable Audio Output:</b> Enables
          audio output only for the VM.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable Audio Input:</b> Enables
          audio input only for the VM.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
