<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-acceleration">
  <title>Acceleration Tab</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        On this tab, you can configure Oracle VM VirtualBox to use hardware
        virtualization extensions that your host CPU supports.
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Paravirtualization
            Interface:</b> Oracle VM VirtualBox provides
            paravirtualization interfaces to improve time-keeping
            accuracy and performance of guest OSes. The options
            available are documented under the
           <codeph>--paravirt-provider</codeph> option in
            <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita"/>. For further details
            on the paravirtualization providers, see
            <xref href="gimproviders.dita">Paravirtualization Providers</xref>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Hardware Virtualization:</b>
            You can configure hardware virtualization features for each
            virtual machine.
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable Nested Paging:</b>
                If the host CPU supports the nested paging (AMD-V) or
                EPT (Intel VT-x) features, then you can expect a
                significant performance increase by enabling nested
                paging in addition to hardware virtualization. For
                technical details, see <xref href="nestedpaging.dita">Nested Paging and VPIDs</xref>.
                For Intel EPT security recommendations, see
                <xref href="sec-rec-cve-2018-3646.dita">CVE-2018-3646</xref>.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>
            Advanced users may be interested in technical details about
            hardware virtualization. See <xref href="hwvirt.dita">Hardware Virtualization</xref>.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        In most cases, the default settings on the
        <b outputclass="bold">Acceleration</b> tab will work
        well. Oracle VM VirtualBox selects sensible defaults, depending on the
        OS that you selected when you created the virtual machine. In
        certain situations, however, you may want to change the
        preconfigured defaults.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
