<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-usb">
               <title>USB Settings</title>
               
               <body>
                  <p>
        The <b outputclass="bold">USB</b> section in a virtual
        machine's <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window
        enables you to configure <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>'s sophisticated USB
        support.
      </p>
                  <p>
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can enable virtual machines to access the USB
        devices on your host directly. To achieve this, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
        presents the guest OS with a virtual USB controller. As soon as
        the guest system starts using a USB device, it will appear as
        unavailable on the host.
      </p>
                  <note>
                     <ul>
                        <li>
                           <p>
              Be careful with USB devices that are currently in use on
              the host. For example, if you allow your guest to connect
              to your USB hard disk that is currently mounted on the
              host, when the guest is activated, it will be disconnected
              from the host without a proper shutdown. This may cause
              data loss.
            </p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p>
              Oracle Solaris hosts have a few known limitations
              regarding USB support. See <xref href="KnownIssues.dita">Known Limitations</xref>.
            </p>
                        </li>
                     </ul>
                  </note>
                  <p>
        In addition to allowing a guest access to your local USB
        devices, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> even enables your guests to connect to
        remote USB devices by use of the VirtualBox Remote Desktop
        Extension (VRDE). See <xref href="usb-over-rdp.dita">Remote USB</xref>.
      </p>
                  <p>
        To enable USB for a VM, select the <b outputclass="bold">Enable
        USB Controller</b> check box. The following settings are
        available:
      </p>
                  <ul>
                     <li>
                        <p>
                           <b outputclass="bold">USB Controller:</b> Selects a
            controller with the specified level of USB support, as
            follows:
          </p>
                        <ul>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                OHCI for USB 1.1
              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                EHCI for USB 2.0. This also enables OHCI.
              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                xHCI for USB 3.0. This supports all USB speeds.
              </p>
                           </li>
                        </ul>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
                           <b outputclass="bold">USB Device Filters:</b> When
            USB support is enabled for a VM, you can determine in detail
            which devices will be automatically attached to the guest.
            For this, you can create filters by specifying certain
            properties of the USB device. USB devices with a matching
            filter will be automatically passed to the guest once they
            are attached to the host. USB devices without a matching
            filter can be passed manually to the guest, for example by
            using the <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">USB</b> menu.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Clicking on the <b outputclass="bold">+</b> button to
            the right of the <b outputclass="bold">USB Device
            Filters</b> window creates a new filter. You can give
            the filter a name, for later reference, and specify the
            filter criteria. The more criteria you specify, the more
            precisely devices will be selected. For instance, if you
            specify only a vendor ID of 046d, all devices produced by
            Logitech will be available to the guest. If you fill in all
            fields, on the other hand, the filter will only apply to a
            particular device model from a particular vendor, and not
            even to other devices of the same type with a different
            revision and serial number.
          </p>
                        <p>
            In detail, the following criteria are available:
          </p>
                        <ul>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                                 <b outputclass="bold">Vendor and Product ID.</b>
                With USB, each vendor of USB products carries an
                identification number that is unique world-wide, called
                the <i>vendor ID</i>. Similarly, each line
                of products is assigned a <i>product
                ID</i> number. Both numbers are commonly written
                in hexadecimal, and a colon separates the vendor from
                the product ID. For example,
                <codeph>046d:c016</codeph> stands for Logitech as a
                vendor, and the M-UV69a Optical Wheel Mouse product.
              </p>
                              <p>
                Alternatively, you can also specify
                <b outputclass="bold">Manufacturer</b> and
                <b outputclass="bold">Product</b> by name.
              </p>
                              <p>
                To list all the USB devices that are connected to your
                host machine with their respective vendor IDs and
                product IDs, use the following command:
              </p>
                              <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage list usbhost</pre>
                              <p>
                On Windows, you can also see all USB devices that are
                attached to your system in the Device Manager. On Linux,
                you can use the <userinput>lsusb</userinput> command.
              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                                 <b outputclass="bold">Serial Number.</b> While
                vendor ID and product ID are quite specific to identify
                USB devices, if you have two identical devices of the
                same brand and product line, you will also need their
                serial numbers to filter them out correctly.
              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                                 <b outputclass="bold">Remote.</b> This setting
                specifies whether the device will be local only, remote
                only, such as over VRDP, or either.
              </p>
                           </li>
                        </ul>
                        <p>
            On a Windows host, you will need to unplug and reconnect a
            USB device to use it after creating a filter for it.
          </p>
                        <p>
            As an example, you could create a new USB filter and specify
            a vendor ID of 046d for Logitech, Inc, a manufacturer index
            of 1, and "not remote". Then any USB devices on the host
            system produced by Logitech, Inc with a manufacturer index
            of 1 will be visible to the guest system.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Several filters can select a single device. For example, a
            filter which selects all Logitech devices, and one which
            selects a particular webcam.
          </p>
                        <p>
            You can deactivate filters without deleting them by
            deselecting the check box next to the filter name.
          </p>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
               </body>
               
            </topic>
