<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-capture">
  <title>Recording Tab</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        On the <b outputclass="bold">Recording</b> tab you can
        enable video and audio recording for a virtual machine and
        change related settings. Note that these features can be enabled
        and disabled while a VM is running.
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable Recording:</b> Select
            this check box and select a <b outputclass="bold">Recording
            Mode</b> option.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Recording Mode:</b> You can
            choose to record video, audio, or both video and audio.
          </p>
        <p>
            Some settings on the
            <b outputclass="bold">Recording</b> tab may be grayed
            out, depending on the <b outputclass="bold">Recording
            Mode</b> setting.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">File Path:</b> The file where
            the recording is saved.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Frame Size:</b> The video
            resolution of the recorded video, in pixels. The drop-down
            list enables you to select from common frame sizes.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Frame Rate:</b> Use the slider
            to set the maximum number of video frames per second (FPS)
            to record. Frames that have a higher frequency are skipped.
            Increasing this value reduces the number of skipped frames
            and increases the file size.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Video Quality:</b> Use the
            slider to set the the bit rate of the video in kilobits per
            second. Increasing this value improves the appearance of the
            video at the cost of an increased file size.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Audio Quality:</b> Use the
            slider to set the quality of the audio recording. Increasing
            this value improves the audio quality at the cost of an
            increased file size.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Screens:</b> For a multiple
            monitor display, you can select which screens to record
            video from.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        As you adjust the video and audio recording settings, the
        approximate output file size for a five minute video is shown.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
