<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-motherboard">
  <title>Motherboard Tab</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        On the <b outputclass="bold">Motherboard</b> tab, you can
        configure virtual hardware that would normally be on the
        motherboard of a real computer.
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Base Memory:</b> Sets the
            amount of RAM that is allocated and given to the VM when it
            is running. The specified amount of memory will be requested
            from the host OS, so it must be available or made available
            as free memory on the host when attempting to start the VM
            and will not be available to the host while the VM is
            running. This is the same setting that was specified in the
            <b outputclass="bold">New Virtual Machine</b> wizard,
            as described in <xref href="create-vm-wizard.dita#create-vm-wizard"/>.
          </p>
        <p>
            Generally, it is possible to change the memory size after
            installing the guest OS. But you must not reduce the memory
            to an amount where the OS would no longer boot.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Boot Order:</b> Determines the
            order in which the guest OS will attempt to boot from the
            various virtual boot devices. Analogous to a real PC's BIOS
            setting, Oracle VM VirtualBox can tell a guest OS to start from
            the virtual floppy, the virtual CD/DVD drive, the virtual
            hard drive (each of these as defined by the other VM
            settings), the network, or none of these.
          </p>
        <p>
            If you select <b outputclass="bold">Network</b>, the
            VM will attempt to boot from a network using the PXE
            mechanism. This needs to be configured in detail on the
            command line. See <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita"/>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Chipset:</b> You can select
            which chipset will be presented to the virtual machine.
            PIIX3 is the default chipset for most guests. For some guest
            OSes such as Mac OS X, the PIIX3 chipset is not well
            supported. As a result, Oracle VM VirtualBox supports an emulation
            of the ICH9 chipset, which supports PCI express, three PCI
            buses, PCI-to-PCI bridges and Message Signaled Interrupts
            (MSI). This enables modern OSes to address more PCI devices
            and no longer requires IRQ sharing. Using the ICH9 chipset
            it is also possible to configure up to 36 network cards,
            compared to a maximum of eight network adapters with PIIX3.
            Note that ICH9 support is experimental and not recommended
            for guest OSes which do not require it.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">TPM:</b> Enables support for a
            Trusted Platform Module (TPM) security processor. Choose
            from the supported TPM versions.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Pointing Device:</b> The
            default virtual pointing device for some guest OSes is the
            traditional PS/2 mouse. If set to <b outputclass="bold">USB
            Tablet</b>, Oracle VM VirtualBox reports to the virtual
            machine that a USB tablet device is present and communicates
            mouse events to the virtual machine through this device.
            Another setting is <b outputclass="bold">USB Multi-Touch
            Tablet</b>, which is suitable for guests running
            Windows 8 or later.
          </p>
        <p>
            Using the virtual USB tablet has the advantage that
            movements are reported in absolute coordinates, instead of
            as relative position changes. This enables Oracle VM VirtualBox to
            translate mouse events over the VM window into tablet events
            without having to "capture" the mouse in the guest as
            described in <xref href="keyb_mouse_normal.dita#keyb_mouse_normal"/>. This
            makes using the VM less tedious even if Guest Additions are
            not installed.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable I/O APIC:</b> Advanced
            Programmable Interrupt Controllers (APICs) are an x86
            hardware feature that have replaced Programmable Interrupt
            Controllers (PICs). With an I/O APIC, OSes can use more than
            16 interrupt requests (IRQs) and therefore avoid IRQ sharing
            for improved reliability.
          </p>
        <note>
          <p>
              Enabling the I/O APIC is <i>required</i>,
              especially for 64-bit Windows guest OSes. It is also
              required if you want to use more than one virtual CPU in a
              virtual machine.
            </p>
        </note>
        <p>
            However, software support for I/O APICs has been unreliable
            with some OSes other than Windows. Also, the use of an I/O
            APIC slightly increases the overhead of virtualization and
            therefore slows down the guest OS a little.
          </p>
        <note type="attention">
          <p>
              All Windows OSes install different kernels, depending on
              whether an I/O APIC is available. As with ACPI, the I/O
              APIC therefore <i>must not be turned off after
              installation</i> of a Windows guest OS. Turning it
              on after installation will have no effect however.
            </p>
        </note>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Hardware Clock in UTC Time:</b>
            If selected, Oracle VM VirtualBox will report the system time in
            UTC format to the guest instead of the local (host) time.
            This affects how the virtual real-time clock (RTC) operates
            and may be useful for UNIX-like guest OSes, which typically
            expect the hardware clock to be set to UTC.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable EFI:</b> Enables
            Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI), which replaces the
            legacy BIOS and may be useful for certain advanced use
            cases. See <xref href="efi.dita#efi"/>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable Secure Boot:</b> Enables
            Secure Boot, to provide a secure environment for starting
            the guest OS.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        In addition, you can turn off the <b outputclass="bold">Advanced
        Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI)</b> which
        Oracle VM VirtualBox presents to the guest OS by default.
      </p>
    <p>
        ACPI is the current industry standard to allow OSes to recognize
        hardware, configure motherboards and other devices and manage
        power. As most computers contain this feature and Windows and
        Linux support ACPI, it is also enabled by default in
        Oracle VM VirtualBox. ACPI can only be turned off using the command
        line. See <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita"/>.
      </p>
    <note type="attention">
      <p>
          All Windows OSes install different kernels, depending on
          whether ACPI is available. This means that ACPI <i>must
          not be turned off</i> after installation of a Windows
          guest OS. However, turning it on after installation will have
          no effect.
        </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
