<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="settings-processor">
  <title>Processor Tab</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        On the <b outputclass="bold">Processor</b> tab, you can
        configure settings for the CPU used by the virtual machine.
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Processor(s):</b> Sets the
            number of virtual CPU cores the guest OSes can see.
            Oracle VM VirtualBox supports symmetrical multiprocessing (SMP)
            and can present up to 32 virtual CPU cores to each virtual
            machine.
          </p>
        <p>
            You should not configure virtual machines to use more CPU
            cores than are available physically. This includes real
            cores, with no hyperthreads.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Execution Cap:</b> Configures
            the CPU execution cap. This limits the amount of time a host
            CPU spends to emulate a virtual CPU. The default setting is
            100%, meaning that there is no limitation. A setting of 50%
            implies a single virtual CPU can use up to 50% of a single
            host CPU. Note that limiting the execution time of the
            virtual CPUs may cause guest timing problems.
          </p>
        <p>
            A warning is displayed at the bottom of the Processor tab if
            an Execution Cap setting is made that may affect system
            performance.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable PAE/NX:</b> Determines
            whether the PAE and NX capabilities of the host CPU will be
            exposed to the virtual machine.
          </p>
        <p>
            PAE stands for Physical Address Extension. Normally, if
            enabled and supported by the OS, then even a 32-bit x86 CPU
            can access more than 4 GB of RAM. This is made possible by
            adding another 4 bits to memory addresses, so that with 36
            bits, up to 64 GB can be addressed. Some OSes, such as
            Ubuntu Server, require PAE support from the CPU and cannot
            be run in a virtual machine without it.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Enable Nested VT-x/AMD-V</b>:
            Enables nested virtualization, with passthrough of hardware
            virtualization functions to the guest VM.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        With virtual machines running modern server OSes, Oracle VM VirtualBox
        also supports CPU hot-plugging. For details, see
        <xref href="cpuhotplug.dita">CPU Hot-Plugging</xref>.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
