<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="sf_mount_manual">
               <title>Manual Mounting</title>
               
               <body>
                  <p>
        You can mount the shared folder from inside a VM, in the same
        way as you would mount an ordinary network share:
      </p>
                  <ul>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            In a Windows guest, shared folders are browseable and
            therefore visible in Windows Explorer. To attach the host's
            shared folder to your Windows guest, open Windows Explorer
            and look for the folder in <b outputclass="bold">My
            Networking Places</b>, <b outputclass="bold">Entire
            Network</b>, <b outputclass="bold">Oracle VM VirtualBox
            Shared Folders</b>. By right-clicking on a shared
            folder and selecting <b outputclass="bold">Map Network
            Drive</b> from the menu that pops up, you can assign
            a drive letter to that shared folder.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Alternatively, on the Windows command line, use the
            following command:
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">net use x: \\vboxsvr\sharename</pre>
                        <p>
            While <codeph>vboxsvr</codeph> is a fixed name, note that
            <codeph>vboxsrv</codeph> would also work, replace
            <varname>x:</varname> with the drive letter that you
            want to use for the share, and
            <varname>sharename</varname> with the share name
            specified with <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            In a Linux guest, use the following command:
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">mount -t vboxsf [-o OPTIONS] sharename mountpoint</pre>
                        <p>
            To mount a shared folder during boot, add the following
            entry to <filepath>/etc/fstab</filepath>:
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">sharename   mountpoint   vboxsf   defaults  0   0</pre>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            In a Oracle Solaris guest, use the following command:
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">mount -F vboxfs [-o OPTIONS] sharename mountpoint</pre>
                        <p>
            Replace <varname>sharename</varname>, use a
            lowercase string, with the share name specified with
            <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> or VirtualBox Manager. Replace
            <varname>mountpoint</varname> with the path where
            you want the share to be mounted on the guest, such as
            <filepath>/mnt/share</filepath>. The usual mount rules
            apply. For example, create this directory first if it does
            not exist yet.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Here is an example of mounting the shared folder for the
            user jack on Oracle Solaris:
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ id
uid=5000(jack) gid=1(other)
$ mkdir /export/home/jack/mount
$ pfexec mount -F vboxfs -o uid=5000,gid=1 jackshare /export/home/jack/mount
$ cd ~/mount
$ ls
sharedfile1.mp3 sharedfile2.txt
$</pre>
                        <p>
            Beyond the standard options supplied by the
            <userinput>mount</userinput> command, the following are
            available:
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">iocharset CHARSET</pre>
                        <p>
            This option sets the character set used for I/O operations.
            Note that on Linux guests, if the
            <codeph>iocharset</codeph> option is not specified, then
            the Guest Additions driver will attempt to use the character
            set specified by the CONFIG_NLS_DEFAULT kernel option. If
            this option is not set either, then UTF-8 is used.
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">convertcp CHARSET</pre>
                        <p>
            This option specifies the character set used for the shared
            folder name. This is UTF-8 by default.
          </p>
                        <p>
            The generic mount options, documented in the
            <userinput>mount</userinput> manual page, apply also. Especially
            useful are the options <codeph>uid</codeph>,
            <codeph>gid</codeph> and <codeph>mode</codeph>, as they
            can allow access by normal users in read/write mode,
            depending on the settings, even if root has mounted the
            filesystem.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            In an OS/2 guest, use the <userinput>VBoxControl</userinput>
            command to manage shared folders. For example:
          </p>
                        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxControl sharedfolder use D: MyShareName
VBoxControl sharedfolder unuse D:
VBoxControl sharedfolder list</pre>
                        <p>
            As with Windows guests, shared folders can also be accessed
            via UNC using <filepath>\\VBoxSF\</filepath>,
            <filepath>\\VBoxSvr\</filepath> or
            <filepath>\\VBoxSrv\</filepath> as the server name and the
            shared folder name as <varname>sharename</varname>.
          </p>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
               </body>
               
            </topic>