<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="sharedfolders">
            <title>Shared Folders</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      With the <i>shared folders</i> feature of
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, you can access files of your host system from
      within the guest system. This is similar to how you would use
      network shares in Windows networks, except that shared folders do
      not require networking, only the Guest Additions. Shared folders
      are supported with Windows 2000 or later, Linux, and Oracle
      Solaris guests. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> includes experimental support for
      Mac OS X and OS/2 guests.
    </p>
               <p>
      Shared folders physically reside on the <i>host</i>
      and are then shared with the guest, which uses a special file
      system driver in the Guest Additions to talk to the host. For
      Windows guests, shared folders are implemented as a pseudo-network
      redirector. For Linux and Oracle Solaris guests, the Guest
      Additions provide a virtual file system.
    </p>
               <p>
      To share a host folder with a virtual machine in <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>,
      you must specify the path of the folder and choose a
      <i>share name</i> that the guest can use to access
      the shared folder. This happens on the host. In the guest you can
      then use the share name to connect to it and access files.
    </p>
               <p>
      There are several ways in which shared folders can be set up for a
      virtual machine:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          In the window of a running VM, you select
          <b outputclass="bold">Shared Folders</b> from the
          <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b> menu, or click on the
          folder icon on the status bar in the bottom right corner.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          If a VM is not currently running, you can configure shared
          folders in the virtual machine's
          <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          From the command line, you can create shared folders using
          <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>, as follows:
        </p>
                     <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage sharedfolder add "VM name" --name "sharename" --hostpath "C:\test"</pre>
                     <p> See <xref href="vboxmanage-sharedfolder.dita"/>. </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>
      There are two types of shares:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Permanent shares, that are saved with the VM settings.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Transient shares, that are added at runtime and disappear when
          the VM is powered off. These can be created using a check box
          in <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/>, or by using the <codeph>--transient</codeph>
          option of the <userinput>VBoxManage sharedfolder add</userinput>
          command.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>
      Shared folders can either be read-write or read-only. This means
      that the guest is either allowed to both read and write, or just
      read files on the host. By default, shared folders are read-write.
      Read-only folders can be created using a check box in the
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/>, or with the <codeph>--readonly option</codeph> of the
      <userinput>VBoxManage sharedfolder add</userinput> command.
    </p>
               <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> shared folders also support symbolic links, also
      called <i>symlinks</i>, under the following
      conditions:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          The host operating system must support symlinks. For example,
          a macOS, Linux, or Oracle Solaris host is required.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Currently only Linux and Oracle Solaris Guest Additions
          support symlinks.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          For security reasons the guest OS is not allowed to create
          symlinks by default. If you trust the guest OS to not abuse
          the functionality, you can enable creation of symlinks for a
          shared folder as follows:
        </p>
                     <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata "VM name" VBoxInternal2/SharedFoldersEnableSymlinksCreate/<varname>sharename</varname> 1</pre>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </body>
            
            
         </topic>
