<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="snapshots-contents">
               <title>Snapshot Contents</title>
               
               <body>
                  <p>
        Think of a snapshot as a point in time that you have preserved.
        More formally, a snapshot consists of the following:
      </p>
                  <ul>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            The snapshot contains a complete copy of the VM settings,
            including the hardware configuration, so that when you
            restore a snapshot, the VM settings are restored as well.
            For example, if you changed the hard disk configuration or
            the VM's system settings, that change is undone when you
            restore the snapshot.
          </p>
                        <p>
            The copy of the settings is stored in the machine
            configuration, an XML text file, and thus occupies very
            little space.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            The complete state of all the virtual disks attached to the
            machine is preserved. Going back to a snapshot means that
            all changes that had been made to the machine's disks, file
            by file and bit by bit, will be undone as well. Files that
            were since created will disappear, files that were deleted
            will be restored, changes to files will be reverted.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Strictly speaking, this is only true for virtual hard disks
            in "normal" mode. You can configure disks to behave
            differently with snapshots, see
            <xref href="hdimagewrites.dita#hdimagewrites"/>. In technical terms, it is
            not the virtual disk itself that is restored when a snapshot
            is restored. Instead, when a snapshot is taken,
            Oracle VM VirtualBox creates differencing images which contain
            only the changes since the snapshot were taken. When the
            snapshot is restored, Oracle VM VirtualBox throws away that
            differencing image, thus going back to the previous state.
            This is both faster and uses less disk space. For the
            details, which can be complex, see
            <xref href="diffimages.dita#diffimages"/>.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Creating the differencing image as such does not occupy much
            space on the host disk initially, since the differencing
            image will initially be empty and grow dynamically later
            with each write operation to the disk. The longer you use
            the machine after having created the snapshot, however, the
            more the differencing image will grow in size.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            If you took a snapshot while the machine was running, the
            memory state of the machine is also saved in the snapshot.
            This is in the same way that memory can be saved when you
            close a VM window. When you restore such a snapshot,
            execution resumes at exactly the point when the snapshot was
            taken.
          </p>
                        <p>
            The memory state file can be as large as the memory size of
            the VM and will therefore occupy considerable disk space.
          </p>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
               </body>
               
            </topic>