<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="soft-keyb-using">
               <title>Using the Soft Keyboard</title>
               
               <body>
                  <ol>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            Display the soft keyboard.
          </p>
                        <p>
            In the guest VM window, select
            <b outputclass="bold">Input</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Keyboard</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Soft Keyboard</b>.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            Select the required keyboard layout.
          </p>
                        <p>
            The name of the current keyboard layout is displayed in the
            toolbar of the soft keyboard window. This is the previous
            keyboard layout that was used.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Click the <b outputclass="bold">Layout List</b> icon
            in the toolbar of the soft keyboard window. The
            <b outputclass="bold">Layout List</b> window is
            displayed.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Select the required keyboard layout from the entries in the
            <b outputclass="bold">Layout List</b> window.
          </p>
                        <p>
            The keyboard display graphic is updated to show the
            available input keys.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            Use the soft keyboard to enter keyboard characters on the
            guest.
          </p>
                        <ul>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                Modifier keys such as Shift, Ctrl, and Alt are available
                on the soft keyboard. Click once to select the modifier
                key, click twice to lock the modifier key.
              </p>
                              <p>
                The <b outputclass="bold">Reset the Keyboard and Release
                All Keys</b> icon can be used to release all
                pressed modifier keys, both on the host and the guest.
              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                To change the look of the soft keyboard, click the
                <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> icon in the
                toolbar. You can change colors used in the keyboard
                graphic, and can hide or show sections of the keyboard,
                such as the NumPad or multimedia keys.
              </p>
                           </li>
                        </ul>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </body>
               
            </topic>