<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="soft-keyb-custom">
               <title>Creating a Custom Keyboard Layout</title>
               
               <body>
                  <p>
        You can use one of the supplied default keyboard layouts as the
        starting point to create a custom keyboard layout.
      </p>
                  <note>
                     <p>
          To permananently save a custom keyboard layout, you must save
          it to a file. Otherwise, any changes you make are discarded
          when you close down the <b outputclass="bold">Soft
          Keyboard</b> window.
        </p>
                     <p>
          Custom keyboard layouts that you save are stored as an XML
          file on the host, in the <filepath>keyboardLayouts</filepath>
          folder in the global configuration data directory. For
          example, in
          <filepath>$HOME/.config/VirtualBox/keyboardLayouts</filepath>
          on a Linux host.
        </p>
                  </note>
                  <ol>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            Display the <b outputclass="bold">Layout List</b>.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Click the <b outputclass="bold">Layout List</b> icon
            in the toolbar of the soft keyboard window.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            Make a copy of an existing keyboard layout.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Highlight the required layout and click the
            <b outputclass="bold">Copy the Selected Layout</b>
            icon.
          </p>
                        <p>
            A new layout entry with a name suffix of
            <codeph>-Copy</codeph> is created.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            Edit the new keyboard layout.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Highlight the new layout in the <b outputclass="bold">Layout
            List</b> and click the <b outputclass="bold">Edit the
            Selected Layout</b> icon.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Enter a new name for the layout.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Edit keys in the new layout. Click on the key that you want
            to edit and enter new key captions in the
            <b outputclass="bold">Captions</b> fields.
          </p>
                        <p>
            The keyboard graphic is updated with the new captions.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            (Optional) Save the layout to a file. This means that your
            custom keyboard layout will be available for future use.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Highlight the new layout in the <b outputclass="bold">Layout
            List</b> and click the <b outputclass="bold">Save the
            Selected Layout into File</b> icon.
          </p>
                        <p>
            Any custom layouts that you create can later be removed from
            the Layout List, by highlighting and clicking the
            <b outputclass="bold">Delete the Selected Layout</b>
            icon.
          </p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </body>
               
            </topic>
