<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="solariscodedumper">
  <title>Configuring the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> CoreDumper on Oracle Solaris Hosts</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> is capable of producing its own core files for
      extensive debugging when things go wrong. Currently this is only
      available on Oracle Solaris hosts.
    </p>
    <p>
      The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> CoreDumper can be enabled using the following
      command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> VBoxInternal2/CoreDumpEnabled 1</pre>
    <p>
      You can specify which directory to use for core dumps with this
      command, as follows:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> VBoxInternal2/CoreDumpDir <varname>path-to-directory</varname>
               </pre>
    <p>
      Make sure the directory you specify is on a volume with sufficient
      free space and that the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> process has sufficient
      permissions to write files to this directory. If you skip this
      command and do not specify any core dump directory, the current
      directory of the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> executable will be used. This
      would most likely fail when writing cores as they are protected
      with root permissions. It is recommended you explicitly set a core
      dump directory.
    </p>
    <p>
      You must specify when the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> CoreDumper should be
      triggered. This is done using the following commands:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> VBoxInternal2/CoreDumpReplaceSystemDump 1
$ VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> VBoxInternal2/CoreDumpLive 1</pre>
    <p>
      At least one of the above two commands will have to be provided if
      you have enabled the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> CoreDumper.
    </p>
    <p>
      Setting <codeph>CoreDumpReplaceSystemDump</codeph> sets up the
      VM to override the host's core dumping mechanism and in the event
      of any crash only the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> CoreDumper would produce the
      core file.
    </p>
    <p>
      Setting <codeph>CoreDumpLive</codeph> sets up the VM to produce
      cores whenever the VM process receives a
      <codeph>SIGUSR2</codeph> signal. After producing the core file,
      the VM will not be terminated and will continue to run. You can
      thus take cores of the VM process using the following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ kill -s SIGUSR2 <varname>VM-process-id</varname>
               </pre>
    <p>
      The <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> CoreDumper creates core files of the form
      <filepath>core.vb.<varname>process-name</varname>.<varname>process-ID</varname>
                  </filepath>
      such as <filepath>core.vb.VBoxHeadless.11321</filepath>.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
