<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="specialcharacters">
               <title>Typing Special Characters</title>
               
               <body>
                  <p>
        Some OSes expect certain key combinations to initiate certain
        procedures. The key combinations that you type into a VM might
        target the host OS, the Oracle VM VirtualBox software, or the guest
        OS. The recipient of these keypresses depends on a number of
        factors, including the key combination itself.
      </p>
                  <ul>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            Host OSes reserve certain key combinations for themselves.
            For example, you cannot use the
            <b outputclass="bold">Ctrl+Alt+Delete</b> combination
            to reboot the guest OS in your VM, because this key
            combination is reserved by the host OS. Even though both
            Windows and Linux OSes can intercept this key combination,
            the host OS is rebooted automatically.
          </p>
                        <p>
            On Linux and Oracle Solaris hosts, which use the X Window
            System, the key combination
            <b outputclass="bold">Ctrl+Alt+Backspace</b> normally
            resets the X server and restarts the entire graphical user
            interface. As the X server intercepts this combination,
            pressing it will usually restart your
            <i>host</i> graphical user interface and kill
            all running programs, including Oracle VM VirtualBox, in the
            process.
          </p>
                        <p>
            On Linux hosts supporting virtual terminals, the key
            combination <b outputclass="bold">Ctrl+Alt+Fx</b>,
            where Fx is one of the function keys from F1 to F12,
            normally enables you to switch between virtual terminals. As
            with <b outputclass="bold">Ctrl+Alt+Delete</b>, these
            combinations are intercepted by the host OS and therefore
            always switch terminals on the <i>host</i>.
          </p>
                        <p>
            If, instead, you want to send these key combinations to the
            <i>guest</i> OS in the virtual machine, you
            will need to use one of the following methods:
          </p>
                        <ul>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                Use the items in the
                <b outputclass="bold">Input</b>,
                <b outputclass="bold">Keyboard</b> menu of the
                virtual machine window. This menu includes the settings
                <b outputclass="bold">Insert Ctrl+Alt+Delete</b>
                and <b outputclass="bold">Insert
                Ctrl+Alt+Backspace</b>. However, the latter
                setting affects only Linux guests or Oracle Solaris
                guests.
              </p>
                              <p>
                This menu also includes an option for inserting the Host
                key combination.
              </p>
                           </li>
                           <li>
                              <p>
                Use special key combinations with the Host key, which is
                normally the right Control key. Oracle VM VirtualBox then
                translates the following key combinations for the VM:
              </p>
                              <ul>
                                 <li>
                                    <p>
                                       <b outputclass="bold">Host key + Del</b>
                    sends <b outputclass="bold">Ctrl+Alt+Del</b>
                    to reboot the guest OS.
                  </p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p>
                                       <b outputclass="bold">Host key +
                    Backspace</b> sends
                    <b outputclass="bold">Ctrl+Alt+Backspace</b>
                    to restart the graphical user interface of a Linux
                    or Oracle Solaris guest.
                  </p>
                                 </li>
                                 <li>
                                    <p>
                                       <b outputclass="bold">Host key + Function
                    key</b>. For example, use this key
                    combination to simulate
                    <b outputclass="bold">Ctrl+Alt+Fx</b> to
                    switch between virtual terminals in a Linux guest.
                  </p>
                                 </li>
                              </ul>
                           </li>
                        </ul>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            For some other keyboard combinations such as
            <b outputclass="bold">Alt+Tab</b> to switch between
            open windows, Oracle VM VirtualBox enables you to configure
            whether these combinations will affect the host or the
            guest, if a virtual machine currently has the focus. This is
            a global setting for all virtual machines and can be found
            under <b outputclass="bold">File</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Preferences</b>,
            <b outputclass="bold">Input</b>.
          </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p>
            A soft keyboard can be used to input key combinations in the
            guest. See <xref href="soft-keyb.dita#soft-keyb"/>.
          </p>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
               </body>
               
            </topic>
