<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="startingvboxonlinux">
               <title>Starting <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> on Linux</title>
               
               <body>
                  <p>
        The easiest way to start an <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> program is by running
        the program of your choice (<userinput>VirtualBox</userinput>,
        <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>, or
        <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput>) from a terminal. These are
        symbolic links to <userinput>VBox.sh</userinput> that start the
        required program for you.
      </p>
                  <p>
        The following detailed instructions should only be of interest
        if you wish to execute <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> without installing it
        first. You should start by compiling the
        <userinput>vboxdrv</userinput> kernel module and inserting it into
        the Linux kernel. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> consists of a service daemon,
        <userinput>VBoxSVC</userinput>, and several application programs.
        The daemon is automatically started if necessary. All
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> applications will communicate with the daemon
        through UNIX local domain sockets. There can be multiple daemon
        instances under different user accounts and applications can
        only communicate with the daemon running under the user account
        as the application. The local domain socket resides in a
        subdirectory of your system's directory for temporary files
        called <filepath>.vbox-&lt;username&gt;-ipc</filepath>. In case
        of communication problems or server startup problems, you may
        try to remove this directory.
      </p>
                  <p>
        All <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> applications (<userinput>VirtualBox</userinput>,
        <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>, and
        <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput>) require the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
        directory to be in the library path, as follows:
      </p>
                  <pre xml:space="preserve">LD_LIBRARY_PATH=. ./VBoxManage showvminfo "Windows XP"</pre>
               </body>
               
            </topic>
