<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="storage-cds">
            <title>CD/DVD Support</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      Virtual CD/DVD drives by default support only reading. The medium
      configuration is changeable at runtime. You can select between the
      following options to provide the medium data:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Host Drive</b> defines that the
          guest can read from the medium in the host drive.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Image file</b> gives the guest
          read-only access to the data in the image. This is typically
          an ISO file.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Empty</b> means a drive without
          an inserted medium.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>
      Changing between the above, or changing a medium in the host drive
      that is accessed by a machine, or changing an image file will
      signal a medium change to the guest OS. The guest OS can then
      react to the change, for example by starting an installation
      program.
    </p>
               <p>
      Medium changes can be prevented by the guest, and Oracle VM VirtualBox
      reflects that by locking the host drive if appropriate. You can
      force a medium removal in such situations by using the VirtualBox
      Manager or the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command line tool.
      Effectively this is the equivalent of the emergency eject which
      many CD/DVD drives provide, with all associated side effects. The
      guest OS can issue error messages, just like on real hardware, and
      guest applications may misbehave. Use this with caution.
    </p>
               <note>
                  <p>
        The identification string of the drive provided to the guest,
        displayed by configuration tools such as the Windows Device
        Manager, is always VBOX CD-ROM, irrespective of the current
        configuration of the virtual drive. This is to prevent hardware
        detection from being triggered in the guest OS every time the
        configuration is changed.
      </p>
               </note>
               <p>
      The standard CD/DVD emulation enables reading of standard data CD
      and DVD formats only. As an experimental feature, for additional
      capabilities, it is possible to give the guest direct access to
      the CD/DVD host drive by enabling <i>passthrough</i>
      mode. Depending on the host hardware, this may potentially enable
      the following things to work:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          CD/DVD writing from within the guest, if the host DVD drive is
          a CD/DVD writer
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Playing audio CDs
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Playing encrypted DVDs
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>
      To enable host drive passthrough you can use the
      <codeph>--passthrough</codeph> option of the <userinput>VBoxManage
      storageattach</userinput> command. See
      <xref href="vboxmanage-storageattach.dita"/>.
    </p>
               <p>
      Even if passthrough is enabled, unsafe commands, such as updating
      the drive firmware, will be blocked. Video CD formats are never
      supported, not even in passthrough mode, and cannot be played from
      a virtual machine.
    </p>
               <p>
      On Oracle Solaris hosts, passthrough requires running
      Oracle VM VirtualBox with real root permissions due to security measures
      enforced by the host.
    </p>
            </body>
            
         </topic>
