<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="sysprep">
  <title>Automated Windows System Preparation</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Microsoft offers a system preparation tool called Sysprep, to
        prepare a Windows system for deployment or redistribution. Some
        Windows releases include Sysprep on the installation medium, but
        the tool is also available for download from the Microsoft web
        site. In a standard For most Windows versions, Sysprep is
        included in a default installation. Sysprep mainly consists of
        an executable called <userinput>sysprep.exe</userinput> which is
        invoked by the user to put the Windows installation into
        preparation mode.
      </p>
    <p>
        The Guest Additions offer a way to launch a system preparation
        on the guest operating system in an automated way, controlled
        from the host system. See
        <xref href="guestadd-guestcontrol.dita">Guest Control of Applications</xref> for details of how to
        use this feature with the special identifier
        <codeph>sysprep</codeph> as the program to execute, along with
        the user name <codeph>sysprep</codeph> and password
        <codeph>sysprep</codeph> for the credentials. Sysprep is then
        started with the required system rights.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          Specifying the location of <userinput>sysprep.exe</userinput> is
          <b outputclass="bold">not possible</b>. Instead the
          following paths are used, based on the Windows release:
        </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p><filepath>C:\sysprep\sysprep.exe</filepath> for Windows XP
              and earlier
            </p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p><filepath>%WINDIR%\System32\sysprep\sysprep.exe</filepath>
              for Windows Vista and later
            </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
          The Guest Additions will automatically use the appropriate
          path to execute the system preparation tool.
        </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
