<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="teleporting">
  <title>Teleporting</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox supports <i>teleporting</i>.
      Teleporting is moving a virtual machine over a network from one
      Oracle VM VirtualBox host to another, while the virtual machine is
      running. This works regardless of the host operating system that
      is running on the hosts. You can teleport virtual machines between
      Oracle Solaris and macOS hosts, for example.
    </p>
    <p>
      Teleporting requires that a machine be currently running on one
      host, which is called the <i>source</i>. The host to
      which the virtual machine will be teleported is called the
      <i>target</i>. The machine on the target is then
      configured to wait for the source to contact the target. The
      machine's running state will then be transferred from the source
      to the target with minimal downtime.
    </p>
    <p>
      Teleporting happens over any TCP/IP network. The source and the
      target only need to agree on a TCP/IP port which is specified in
      the teleporting settings.
    </p>
    <p>
      At this time, there are a few prerequisites for this to work, as
      follows:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
          On the target host, you must configure a virtual machine in
          Oracle VM VirtualBox with exactly the same hardware settings as the
          machine on the source that you want to teleport. This does not
          apply to settings which are merely descriptive, such as the VM
          name, but obviously for teleporting to work, the target
          machine must have the same amount of memory and other hardware
          settings. Otherwise teleporting will fail with an error
          message.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          The two virtual machines on the source and the target must
          share the same storage, hard disks as well as floppy disks and
          CD/DVD images. This means that they either use the same iSCSI
          targets or that the storage resides somewhere on the network
          and both hosts have access to it using NFS or SMB/CIFS.
        </p>
        <p>
          This also means that neither the source nor the target machine
          can have any snapshots.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      To configure teleporting, perform the following steps:
    </p>
    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>
          On the <i>target</i> host, configure the virtual
          machine to wait for a teleport request to arrive when it is
          started, instead of actually attempting to start the machine.
          This is done with the following <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>
          command:
        </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>targetvmname</varname> --teleporter on --teleporter-port <varname>port</varname>
                     </pre>
        <p><varname>targetvmname</varname> is the name of the
          virtual machine on the target host and
          <varname>port</varname> is a TCP/IP port number to be
          used on both the source and the target hosts. For example, use
          6000. See <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita">VBoxManage modifyvm</xref>.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Start the VM on the target host. Instead of running, the VM
          shows a progress dialog, indicating that it is waiting for a
          teleport request to arrive.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
          Start the VM on the <i>source</i> host as usual.
          When it is running and you want it to be teleported, issue the
          following command on the source host:
        </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage controlvm <varname>sourcevmname</varname> teleport --host <varname>targethost</varname> --port <varname>port</varname>
                     </pre>
        <p>
          where <varname>sourcevmname</varname> is the name of
          the virtual machine on the source host, which is the machine
          that is currently running.
          <varname>targethost</varname> is the host or IP name
          of the target host on which the machine is waiting for the
          teleport request, and <varname>port</varname> must be
          the same number as specified in the command on the target
          host. See <xref href="vboxmanage-controlvm.dita">VBoxManage controlvm</xref>.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ol>
    <p>
      For testing, you can also teleport machines on the same host. In
      that case, use localhost as the hostname on both the source and
      the target host.
    </p>
    <note>
      <p>
        In rare cases, if the CPUs of the source and the target are very
        different, teleporting can fail with an error message, or the
        target may hang. This may happen especially if the VM is running
        application software that is highly optimized to run on a
        particular CPU without correctly checking that certain CPU
        features are actually present. Oracle VM VirtualBox filters what CPU
        capabilities are presented to the guest operating system.
        Advanced users can attempt to restrict these virtual CPU
        capabilities with the <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm
        --cpuid-portability-level</userinput> command. See
        <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita">VBoxManage modifyvm</xref>.
      </p>
    </note>
  </body>
  
</topic>
