<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ts_config-periodic-flush">
  <title>Guest Shows IDE/SATA Errors for File-Based Images on Slow Host File
        System</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Occasionally, some host file systems provide very poor writing
        performance and as a consequence cause the guest to time out
        IDE/SATA commands. This is normal behavior and should normally
        cause no real problems, as the guest should repeat commands that
        have timed out. However, guests such as some Linux versions have
        severe problems if a write to an image file takes longer than
        about 15 seconds. Some file systems however require more than a
        minute to complete a single write, if the host cache contains a
        large amount of data that needs to be written.
      </p>
    <p>
        The symptom for this problem is that the guest can no longer
        access its files during large write or copying operations,
        usually leading to an immediate hang of the guest.
      </p>
    <p>
        In order to work around this problem, the true fix is to use a
        faster file system that does not exhibit such unacceptable write
        performance, it is possible to flush the image file after a
        certain amount of data has been written. This interval is
        normally infinite, but can be configured individually for each
        disk of a VM.
      </p>
    <p>
        For IDE disks use the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname>
"VBoxInternal/Devices/piix3ide/0/LUN#[<varname>x</varname>]/Config/FlushInterval" [<varname>b</varname>]</pre>
    <p>
        For SATA disks use the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname>
"VBoxInternal/Devices/ahci/0/LUN#[<varname>x</varname>]/Config/FlushInterval" [<varname>b</varname>]</pre>
    <p><codeph>[<varname>x</varname>]</codeph> specifies the
        disk. For IDE, <codeph>0</codeph> represents device 0 on the
        primary channel, <codeph>1</codeph> represents device 1 on the
        primary channel, <codeph>2</codeph> represents device 0 on the
        secondary channel, and <codeph>3</codeph> represents device 1
        on the secondary channel. For SATA, use values between
        <codeph>0</codeph> and <codeph>29</codeph>. This
        configuration option applies to disks only. Do not use this
        option for CD or DVD drives.
      </p>
    <p>
        The unit of the interval
        (<codeph>[<varname>b</varname>]</codeph>) is the
        number of bytes written since the last flush. The value for it
        must be selected so that the occasional long write delays do not
        occur. Since the proper flush interval depends on the
        performance of the host and the host filesystem, finding the
        optimal value that makes the problem disappear requires some
        experimentation. Values between 1000000 and 10000000 (1 to 10
        megabytes) are a good starting point. Decreasing the interval
        both decreases the probability of the problem and the write
        performance of the guest. Setting the value unnecessarily low
        will cost performance without providing any benefits. An
        interval of 1 will cause a flush for each write operation and
        should solve the problem in any case, but has a severe write
        performance penalty.
      </p>
    <p>
        Providing a value of <codeph>0</codeph> for
        <codeph>[<varname>b</varname>]</codeph> is treated as
        an infinite flush interval, effectively disabling this
        workaround. Removing the extra data key by specifying no value
        for <codeph>[<varname>b</varname>]</codeph> has the
        same effect.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
