<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ts_categorize-isolate">
  <title>Categorizing and Isolating Problems</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        More often than not, a virtualized guest behaves like a physical
        system. Any problems that a physical machine would encounter, a
        virtual machine will encounter as well. If, for example,
        Internet connectivity is lost due to external issues, virtual
        machines will be affected just as much as physical ones.
      </p>
    <p>
        If a true Oracle VM VirtualBox problem is encountered, it helps to
        categorize and isolate the problem first. Here are some of the
        questions that should be answered before reporting a problem:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Is the problem specific to a certain guest OS? Or a specific
            release of a guest OS? Especially with Linux guest related
            problems, the issue may be specific to a certain
            distribution and version of Linux.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Is the problem specific to a certain host OS? Problems are
            usually not host OS specific, because most of the
            Oracle VM VirtualBox code base is shared across all supported
            platforms, but especially in the areas of networking and USB
            support, there are significant differences between host
            platforms. Some GUI related issues are also host specific.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Is the problem specific to certain host hardware? This
            category of issues is typically related to the host CPU.
            Because of significant differences between VT-x and AMD-V,
            problems may be specific to one or the other technology. The
            exact CPU model may also make a difference because different
            CPUs support different features, which may affect certain
            aspects of guest CPU operation.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Is the problem specific to guest SMP? That is, is it related
            to the number of virtual CPUs (VCPUs) in the guest? Using
            more than one CPU usually significantly affects the internal
            operation of a guest OS.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Is the problem specific to the Guest Additions? In some
            cases, this is obvious, such as a shared folders problem. In
            other cases such as display problems, it may be less
            obvious. If the problem is Guest Additions specific, is it
            also specific to a certain version of the Guest Additions?
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Is the problem specific to a certain environment? Some
            problems are related to a particular environment external to
            the VM. This usually involves network setup. Certain
            configurations of external servers such as DHCP or PXE may
            expose problems which do not occur with other, similar
            servers.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Is the problem a regression? Knowing that an issue is a
            regression usually makes it significantly easier to find the
            solution. In this case, it is crucial to know which version
            is affected and which is not.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
