<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ts_win-host-com-server">
  <title>VBoxSVC Out-of-Process COM Server Issues</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Oracle VM VirtualBox makes use of the Microsoft Component Object Model
        (COM) for interprocess and intraprocess communication. This
        enables Oracle VM VirtualBox to share a common configuration among
        different virtual machine processes and provide several user
        interface options based on a common architecture. All global
        status information and configuration is maintained by the
        process <filepath>VBoxSVC.exe</filepath>, which is an
        out-of-process COM server. Whenever an Oracle VM VirtualBox process is
        started, it requests access to the COM server and Windows
        automatically starts the process. Note that it should never be
        started by the end user.
      </p>
    <p>
        When the last process disconnects from the COM server, it will
        terminate itself after some seconds. The Oracle VM VirtualBox
        configuration XML files are maintained and owned by the COM
        server and the files are locked whenever the server runs.
      </p>
    <p>
        In some cases, such as when a virtual machine is terminated
        unexpectedly, the COM server will not notice that the client is
        disconnected and stay active for a longer period of 10 minutes
        or so, keeping the configuration files locked. In other rare
        cases the COM server might experience an internal error and
        subsequently other processes fail to initialize it. In these
        situations, it is recommended to use the Windows task manager to
        kill the process <filepath>VBoxSVC.exe</filepath>.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
