<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ts_win-guest-bluescreen">
  <title>Windows Bluescreens After Changing VM Configuration</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Changing certain virtual machine settings can cause Windows
        guests to fail during start up with a bluescreen. This may
        happen if you change VM settings after installing Windows, or if
        you copy a disk image with an already installed Windows to a
        newly created VM which has settings that differ from the
        original machine.
      </p>
    <p>
        This applies in particular to the following settings:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            The ACPI and I/O APIC settings should never be changed after
            installing Windows. Depending on the presence of these
            hardware features, the Windows installation program chooses
            special kernel and device driver versions and will fail to
            startup should these hardware features be removed. Enabling
            them for a Windows VM which was installed without them does
            not cause any harm. However, Windows will not use these
            features in this case.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Changing the storage controller hardware will cause bootup
            failures as well. This might also apply to you if you copy a
            disk image from an older version of Oracle VM VirtualBox to a new
            virtual machine. The default subtype of IDE controller
            hardware used by Oracle VM VirtualBox is PIIX4. Make sure that the
            storage controller settings are identical.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
