<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="ts_win-host-rdp-client">
  <title>Sluggish Response When Using Microsoft RDP Client</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        If connecting to a Virtual Machine using the Microsoft RDP
        client, called a Remote Desktop Connection, there can be large
        delays between input such as moving the mouse over a menu and
        output. This is because this RDP client collects input for a
        certain time before sending it to the RDP server.
      </p>
    <p>
        The interval can be decreased by setting a Windows registry key
        to smaller values than the default of 100. The key does not
        exist initially and must be of type DWORD. The unit for its
        values is milliseconds. Values around 20 are suitable for
        low-bandwidth connections between the RDP client and server.
        Values around 4 can be used for a gigabit Ethernet connection.
        Generally values below 10 achieve a performance that is very
        close to that of the local input devices and screen of the host
        on which the Virtual Machine is running.
      </p>
    <p>
        Depending whether the setting should be changed for an
        individual user or for the system, set either of the following.
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Min Send Interval</pre>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Terminal Server Client\Min Send Interval</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
