<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="usb-over-rdp">
  <title>Remote USB</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        As a special feature additional to the VRDP support,
        Oracle VM VirtualBox also supports remote USB devices over the wire.
        That is, an Oracle VM VirtualBox guest that runs on one computer can
        access the USB devices of the remote computer on which the VRDP
        data is being displayed the same way as USB devices that are
        connected to the actual host. This enables running of virtual
        machines on an Oracle VM VirtualBox host that acts as a server, where
        a client can connect from elsewhere that needs only a network
        adapter and a display capable of running an RDP viewer. When USB
        devices are plugged into the client, the remote Oracle VM VirtualBox
        server can access them.
      </p>
    <p>
        For these remote USB devices, the same filter rules apply as for
        other USB devices. See <xref href="settings-usb.dita">USB Settings</xref>. All you
        have to do is specify Remote, or Any, when setting up these
        rules.
      </p>
    <p>
        Accessing remote USB devices is only possible if the RDP client
        supports this extension. Some versions of
        <userinput>uttsc</userinput>, a client tailored for the use with Sun
        Ray thin clients, support accessing remote USB devices. RDP
        clients for other platforms will be provided in future
        Oracle VM VirtualBox versions.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
