<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="usbip-setup-server">
  <title>Setting up USB/IP Support on a Linux System</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        This section gives a brief overview on how to set up a Linux
        based system to act as a USB device server. The system on the
        server requires that the <filepath>usbip-core.ko</filepath> and
        <filepath>usbip-host.ko</filepath> kernel drivers are available,
        and that the USB/IP tools package is installed. The particular
        installation method for the necessary tools depends on which
        distribution is used. For example, for Debian based systems, use
        the following command to install the required tools:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ apt-get install usbip-utils</pre>
    <p>
        To check whether the necessary tools are already installed use
        the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ usbip list -l
      </pre>
    <p>
        This should produce output similar to that shown in the example
        below:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"> - busid 4-2 (0bda:0301)
   Realtek Semiconductor Corp. : multicard reader (0bda:0301)

 - busid 5-1 (046d:c52b)
   Logitech, Inc. : Unifying Receiver (046d:c52b)
      </pre>
    <p>
        If everything is installed, the USB/IP server needs to be
        started as <codeph>root</codeph> using the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># usbipd -D</pre>
    <p>
        See the documentation for the installed distribution to
        determine how to start the service when the system boots.
      </p>
    <p>
        By default, no device on the server is exported. This must be
        done manually for each device. To export a device use the
        following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># usbip bind -b "bus identifier"</pre>
    <p>
        To export the multicard reader in the previous example:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># usbip bind -b 4-2</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
