<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="user-interface">
            <title>User Interface</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      The <b outputclass="bold">User Interface</b> section
      enables you to change certain aspects of the user interface of the
      selected VM.
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Menu Bar:</b> This widget enables
          you to disable a complete menu, by clicking on the menu name
          to deselect it. Menu entries can be disabled, by deselecting
          the check box next to the entry. On Windows and Linux hosts,
          the complete menu bar can be disabled by deselecting the check
          box on the right.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Mini ToolBar:</b> In full screen
          or seamless mode, Oracle VM VirtualBox can display a small toolbar
          that contains some of the items that are normally available
          from the virtual machine's menu bar. This toolbar reduces
          itself to a small gray line unless you move the mouse over it.
          With the toolbar, you can return from full screen or seamless
          mode, control machine execution, or enable certain devices. If
          you do not want to see the toolbar, disable the
          <b outputclass="bold">Show in Full Screen/Seamless</b>
          setting.
        </p>
                     <p>
          The <b outputclass="bold">Show at Top of Screen</b>
          setting enables you to show the toolbar at the top of the
          screen, instead of showing it at the bottom.
        </p>
                     <p>
          The Mini Toolbar is not available on macOS hosts.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Status Bar:</b> This widget
          enables you to disable and reorder icons on the status bar.
          Deselect the check box of an icon to disable it, or rearrange
          icons by dragging and dropping the icon. To disable the
          complete status bar deselect the check box on the left.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </body>
            
         </topic>
