<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vboxwatchdog">
  <title>Oracle VM VirtualBox Watchdog</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      The memory ballooning service, formerly known as
      <userinput>VBoxBalloonCtrl</userinput>, was renamed to VBoxWatchdog.
      This service now incorporates the following host services that are
      meant to be run in a server environment:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Memory ballooning control.</b>
          This service automatically takes care of a VM's configured
          memory balloon. See <xref href="guestadd-balloon.dita">Memory Ballooning</xref>. This
          service is useful for server environments where VMs may
          dynamically require more or less memory during runtime.
        </p>
        <p>
          The service periodically checks a VM's current memory balloon
          and its free guest RAM and automatically adjusts the current
          memory balloon by inflating or deflating it accordingly. This
          handling only applies to running VMs having recent Guest
          Additions installed.
        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><b outputclass="bold">Host isolation detection.</b>
          This service provides a way to detect whether the host cannot
          reach the specific Oracle VM VirtualBox server instance anymore and
          take appropriate actions, such as shutting down, saving the
          current state or even powering down certain VMs.
        </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      All configuration values can be either specified using the command
      line or global extradata, whereas command line values always have
      a higher priority when set. Some of the configuration values also
      be specified on a per-VM basis. So the overall lookup order is:
      command line, per-VM basis extradata if available, global
      extradata.
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
