<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vboxwatchdog-hostisln">
  <title>Host Isolation Detection</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        To detect whether a host is being isolated, that is, the host
        cannot reach the Oracle VM VirtualBox server instance anymore, the
        host needs to set an alternating value to a global extradata
        value within a time period. If this value is not set within that
        time period a timeout occurred and the so-called host isolation
        response will be performed to the VMs handled. Which VMs are
        handled can be controlled by defining VM groups and assigning
        VMs to those groups. By default no groups are set, meaning that
        all VMs on the server will be handled when no host response is
        received within 30 seconds.
      </p>
    <p>
        Set the groups handled by the host isolation detection using the
        following command line:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">--apimon-groups=&lt;string[,stringN]&gt;</pre>
    <p>
        Using a global extradata value, as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata global VBoxInternal2/Watchdog/APIMonitor/Groups &lt;string[,stringN]&gt;</pre>
    <p>
        Set the host isolation timeout using the following command line:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">--apimon-isln-timeout=&lt;ms&gt;</pre>
    <p>
        Using a global extradata value, as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata global VBoxInternal2/Watchdog/APIMonitor/IsolationTimeoutMS &lt;ms&gt;</pre>
    <p>
        Set the actual host isolation response using the following
        command line:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">--apimon-isln-response=&lt;cmd&gt;</pre>
    <p>
        Using a global extradata value, as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata global VBoxInternal2/Watchdog/APIMonitor/IsolationResponse &lt;cmd&gt;</pre>
    <p>
        The following response commands are available:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>none</codeph>. This has no effect.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>pause</codeph>. Pauses the execution of a VM.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>poweroff</codeph>. Shuts down the VM by pressing
            the virtual power button. The VM will not have the chance of
            saving any data or veto the shutdown process.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>save</codeph>. Saves the current machine state and
            powers off the VM afterwards. If saving the machine state
            fails the VM will be paused.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p><codeph>shutdown</codeph>. Shuts down the VM in a gentle
            way by sending an <codeph>ACPI</codeph> shutdown event to
            the VM's operating system. The OS then has the chance of
            doing a clean shutdown.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
