<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vboxbowvnictemplates">
  <title><ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> VNIC Templates for VLANs on Oracle Solaris 11 Hosts</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> supports Virtual Network Interface (VNIC) templates
      for configuring VMs over VLANs. An <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> VNIC template is
      a VNIC whose name starts with
      <filepath>vboxvnic_template</filepath>. The string is
      case-sensitive.
    </p>
    <p>
      On Oracle Solaris 11 hosts, when Crossbow-based bridged networking
      is used, a VNIC template may be used to specify the VLAN ID to use
      while bridging over a network link.
    </p>
    <p>
      The following is an example of how to use a VNIC template to
      configure a VM over a VLAN. Create an <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> VNIC
      template, by executing as root:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve"># dladm create-vnic -t -l nge0 -v 23 vboxvnic_template0</pre>
    <p>
      This will create a temporary VNIC template over interface
      <userinput>nge0</userinput> with the VLAN ID 23. To create VNIC
      templates that are persistent across host reboots, skip the
      <codeph>-t</codeph> parameter in the above command. You may check
      the current state of links using the following command:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ dladm show-link
LINK        CLASS     MTU    STATE    BRIDGE     OVER
nge0        phys      1500   up       --         --
nge1        phys      1500   down     --         --
vboxvnic_template0 vnic 1500 up       --         nge0

$ dladm show-vnic
LINK         OVER         SPEED  MACADDRESS        MACADDRTYPE         VID
vboxvnic_template0 nge0   1000   2:8:20:25:12:75   random              23</pre>
    <p>
      Once the VNIC template is created, any VMs that need to be on VLAN
      23 over the interface <userinput>nge0</userinput> can be configured to
      bridge using this VNIC template.
    </p>
    <p>
      VNIC templates makes managing VMs on VLANs simpler and efficient.
      The VLAN details are not stored as part of every VM's
      configuration but rather inherited from the VNIC template while
      starting the VM. The VNIC template itself can be modified anytime
      using the <userinput>dladm</userinput> command.
    </p>
    <p>
      VNIC templates can be created with additional properties such as
      bandwidth limits and CPU fanout. Refer to your Oracle Solaris
      network documentation for details. The additional properties are
      also applied to VMs which bridge using the VNIC template.
    </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
