<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vbox-auth">
  <title>RDP Authentication</title>

  <body>
    <p>
        For each virtual machine that is remotely accessible using RDP, you can individually
        determine if and how client connections are authenticated. For this, use the
        <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm</userinput> command with the
        <codeph>--vrde-auth-type</codeph> option. See <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita">
        VBoxManage modifyvm</xref>. The following methods of authentication are available:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            The <b outputclass="bold">null</b> method means that
            there is no authentication at all. Any client can connect to
            the VRDP server and thus the virtual machine. This is very
            insecure and only to be recommended for private networks.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            The <b outputclass="bold">external</b> method
            provides external authentication through a special
            authentication library. <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> ships with two
            special authentication libraries:
          </p>
        <ol>
          <li>
            <p>
                The default authentication library,
                <userinput>VBoxAuth</userinput>, authenticates against user
                credentials of the hosts. Depending on the host
                platform, this means the following:
              </p>
            <ul>
              <li>
                <p>
                    On Linux hosts, <userinput>VBoxAuth.so</userinput>
                    authenticates users against the host's PAM system.
                  </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                    On Windows hosts, <userinput>VBoxAuth.dll</userinput>
                    authenticates users against the host's WinLogon
                    system.
                  </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                    On macOS hosts, <userinput>VBoxAuth.dylib</userinput>
                    authenticates users against the host's directory
                    service.
                  </p>
              </li>
            </ul>
            <p>
                In other words, the external method by default performs
                authentication with the user accounts that exist on the
                host system. Any user with valid authentication
                credentials is accepted. For example, the username does
                not have to correspond to the user running the VM.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p>
                An additional library called
                <userinput>VBoxAuthSimple</userinput> performs
                authentication against credentials configured in the
                <codeph>extradata</codeph> section of a virtual
                machine's XML settings file. This is probably the
                simplest way to get authentication that does not depend
                on a running and supported guest. The following steps
                are required:
              </p>
            <ol>
              <li>
                <p>
                    Enable <userinput>VBoxAuthSimple</userinput> with the
                    following command:
                  </p>
                <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setproperty vrdeauthlibrary "VBoxAuthSimple"</pre>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                    To enable the library for a particular VM, you must
                    switch authentication to external, as follows:
                  </p>
                <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --vrde-auth-type external</pre>
                <p>
                    Replace <varname>VM-name</varname> with the
                    VM name or UUID.
                  </p>
              </li>
              <li>
                <p>
                    You then need to configure users and passwords by
                    writing items into the machine's extradata. Since
                    the XML machine settings file, into whose
                    <codeph>extradata</codeph> section the password
                    needs to be written, is a plain text file,
                    <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses hashes to encrypt passwords. The
                    following command must be used:
                  </p>
                <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata <varname>VM-name</varname> "VBoxAuthSimple/users/<varname>user</varname>" <varname>hash</varname>
                                    </pre>
                <p>
                    Replace <varname>VM-name</varname> with the
                    VM name or UUID, <varname>user</varname>
                    with the user name who should be allowed to log in
                    and <varname>hash</varname> with the
                    encrypted password. The following command example
                    obtains the hash value for the password
                    <codeph>secret</codeph>:
                  </p>
                <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage internalcommands passwordhash "secret"
2bb80d537b1da3e38bd30361aa855686bde0eacd7162fef6a25fe97bf527a25b</pre>
                <p>
                    You then use <userinput>VBoxManage
                    setextradata</userinput> to store this value in the
                    machine's <codeph>extradata</codeph> section.
                  </p>
                <p>
                    As a combined example, to set the password for the
                    user <codeph>john</codeph> and the machine
                    <codeph>My VM</codeph> to
                    <codeph>secret</codeph>, use this command:
                  </p>
                <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage setextradata "My VM" "VBoxAuthSimple/users/john"
    2bb80d537b1da3e38bd30361aa855686bde0eacd7162fef6a25fe97bf527a25b</pre>
              </li>
            </ol>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            The <b outputclass="bold">guest</b> authentication
            method performs authentication with a special component that
            comes with the Guest Additions. As a result, authentication
            is not performed on the host, but with the guest user
            accounts.
          </p>
        <p>
            This method is currently still in testing and not yet
            supported.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        In addition to the methods described above, you can replace the
        default external authentication module with any other module.
        For this, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> provides a well-defined interface that
        enables you to write your own authentication module. This is
        described in detail in the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Software Development
        Kit (SDK) reference. See <xref href="VirtualBoxAPI.dita#VirtualBoxAPI"/>.
      </p>
  </body>

</topic>
