<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vboxconfigdata-machine-folder">
  <title>The Machine Folder</title>

  <body>
    <p>
        By default, each virtual machine has a directory on your host
        computer where all the files of that machine are stored: the XML
        settings file, with a <filepath>.vbox</filepath> file extension,
        and its disk images. This is called the <i>machine
        folder</i>.
      </p>
    <p>
        By default, this machine folder is located in a common folder
        called <filepath>VirtualBox VMs</filepath>, which <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
        creates in the current system user's home directory. The
        location of this home directory depends on the conventions of
        the host operating system, as follows:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            On Windows, this is the location returned by the
            <codeph>SHGetFolderPath</codeph> function of the Windows
            system library Shell32.dll, asking for the user profile. A
            typical location is
            <filepath>C:\Users\<varname>username</varname>
                           </filepath>.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            On Linux, macOS, and Oracle Solaris, this is generally
            taken from the environment variable
            <filepath>$HOME</filepath>, except for the user
            <codeph>root</codeph> where it is taken from the account
            database. This is a workaround for the frequent trouble
            caused by users using <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> in combination with the
            tool <userinput>sudo</userinput>, which by default does not
            reset the environment variable <filepath>$HOME</filepath>.
          </p>
        <p>
            A typical location on Linux and Oracle Solaris is
            <filepath>/home/<varname>username</varname>
                           </filepath>
            and on macOS is
            <filepath>/Users/<varname>username</varname>
                           </filepath>.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        For simplicity, we abbreviate the location of the home directory
        as <filepath>$HOME</filepath>. Using that convention, the common
        folder for all virtual machines is <filepath>$HOME/VirtualBox
        VMs</filepath>.
      </p>
    <p>
        As an example, when you create a virtual machine called "Example
        VM", <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> creates the following:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            A machine folder: <filepath>$HOME/VirtualBox VMs/Example
            VM/</filepath>
                        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            In the machine folder, a settings file: <filepath>Example
            VM.vbox</filepath>
                        </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            In the machine folder, a virtual disk image:
            <filepath>Example VM.vdi</filepath>.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        This is the default layout if you use the
        <b outputclass="bold">Create New Virtual Machine</b>
        wizard described in <xref href="create-vm-wizard.dita">Creating Your First Virtual Machine</xref>. Once you
        start working with the VM, additional files are added. Log files
        are in a subfolder called <filepath>Logs</filepath>, and if you
        have taken snapshots, they are in a
        <filepath>Snapshots</filepath> subfolder. For each VM, you can
        change the location of its snapshots folder in the VM settings.
      </p>
    <p>
        You can change the default machine folder by selecting <b outputclass="bold">Preferences</b>
        from the <b outputclass="bold">File</b> menu in the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> main window. Then, in
        the displayed window, click on the <b outputclass="bold">General</b> tab. Alternatively, use
        the <userinput>VBoxManage setproperty machinefolder</userinput> command. See
        <xref href="vboxmanage-setproperty.dita">VBoxManage setproperty</xref>.
    </p>
  </body>

</topic>
