<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vboxmanage-intro">
            <title>Introduction</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      As briefly mentioned in <xref href="frontends.dita#frontends"/>,
      <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> is the command-line interface to
      Oracle VM VirtualBox. With it, you can completely control Oracle VM VirtualBox
      from the command line of your host operating system.
      <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> supports all the features that the
      graphical user interface gives you access to, but it supports a
      lot more than that. It exposes all the features of the
      virtualization engine, even those that cannot be accessed from the
      GUI.
    </p>
               <p>
      You will need to use the command line if you want to do the
      following:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Use a different user interface than the main GUI such as the
          VBoxHeadless server.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          Control some of the more advanced and experimental
          configuration settings for a VM.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>
      There are two main things to keep in mind when using
      <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput>. First,
      <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> must always be used with a specific
      subcommand, such as <userinput>list</userinput> or
      <userinput>createvm</userinput> or <userinput>startvm</userinput>. All the
      subcommands that <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> supports are
      described in detail in <xref href="vboxmanage.dita#vboxmanage"/>.
    </p>
               <p>
      Second, most of these subcommands require that you specify a
      particular virtual machine after the subcommand. There are two
      ways you can do this:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          You can specify the VM name, as it is shown in the
          Oracle VM VirtualBox GUI. Note that if that name contains spaces,
          then you must enclose the entire name in double quotes. This
          is always required with command line arguments that contain
          spaces. For example:
        </p>
                     <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage startvm "Windows XP"</pre>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          You can specify the UUID, which is the internal unique
          identifier that Oracle VM VirtualBox uses to refer to the virtual
          machine. Assuming that the VM called "Windows XP" has the UUID
          shown below, the following command has the same effect as the
          previous example:
        </p>
                     <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage startvm 670e746d-abea-4ba6-ad02-2a3b043810a5</pre>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>
      You can enter <userinput>VBoxManage list vms</userinput> to have all
      currently registered VMs listed with all their settings, including
      their respective names and UUIDs.
    </p>
               <p>
      Some typical examples of how to control Oracle VM VirtualBox from the
      command line are listed below:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          To create a new virtual machine from the command line and
          immediately register it with Oracle VM VirtualBox, use
          <userinput>VBoxManage createvm</userinput> with the
          <!--option not processed within -->--register option, as follows:
        </p>
                     <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage createvm --name "SUSE 10.2" --register
VirtualBox Command Line Management Interface Version <varname>version-number</varname>
(C) 2005-2018 Oracle Corporation
All rights reserved.

Virtual machine 'SUSE 10.2' is created.
UUID: c89fc351-8ec6-4f02-a048-57f4d25288e5
Settings file: '/home/username/.config/VirtualBox/Machines/SUSE 10.2/SUSE 10.2.xml'</pre>
                     <p>
          As can be seen from the above output, a new virtual machine
          has been created with a new UUID and a new XML settings file.
        </p>
                     <p>
          For more details, see
          <xref href="vboxmanage-createvm.dita"/>.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          To show the configuration of a particular VM, use
          <userinput>VBoxManage showvminfo</userinput>. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage-showvminfo.dita"/> for details
          and an example.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          To change settings while a VM is powered off, use
          <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm</userinput>. For example:
        </p>
                     <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm "Windows XP" --memory 512</pre>
                     <p>
          See also <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita"/>.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          To change the storage configuration, such as to add a storage
          controller and then a virtual disk, use <userinput>VBoxManage
          storagectl</userinput> and <userinput>VBoxManage
          storageattach</userinput>. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage-storagectl.dita"/> and
          <xref href="vboxmanage-storageattach.dita"/>.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
          To control VM operation, use one of the following:
        </p>
                     <ul>
                        <li>
                           <p>
              To start a VM that is currently powered off, use
              <userinput>VBoxManage startvm</userinput>. See
              <xref href="vboxmanage-startvm.dita"/>.
            </p>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                           <p>
              To pause or save a VM that is currently running or change
              some of its settings, use <userinput>VBoxManage
              controlvm</userinput>. See
              <xref href="vboxmanage-controlvm.dita"/>.
            </p>
                        </li>
                     </ul>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </body>
            
         </topic>
