<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vboxheadless">
  <title>VBoxHeadless, the Remote Desktop Server</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        While any VM started from <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/> is capable of running
        virtual machines remotely, it is not convenient to have to run
        the full GUI if you never want to have VMs displayed locally in
        the first place. In particular, if you are running server
        hardware whose only purpose is to host VMs, and all your VMs are
        supposed to run remotely over VRDP, then it is pointless to have
        a graphical user interface on the server at all. This is
        especially true for Linux or Oracle Solaris hosts, as the
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/> comes with dependencies on the Qt and SDL libraries.
        This is inconvenient if you would rather not have the X Window
        system on your server at all.
      </p>
    <p>
        <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> therefore comes with a front-end called
        <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput>, which produces no visible
        output on the host at all, but still can optionally deliver VRDP
        data. This front-end has no dependencies on the X Window system
        on Linux and Oracle Solaris hosts.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          In legacy releases of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, the headless server was
          called <userinput>VBoxVRDP</userinput>. For backwards
          compatibility, the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> installation still includes
          an executable with that name.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        To start a virtual machine with <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput>,
        you have the following options:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Use the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command, as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage startvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --type headless</pre>
        <p>
            The <codeph>--type</codeph> option causes <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> to
            use <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput> as the front-end to the
            internal virtualization engine, instead of the Qt front-end.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Use the <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput> command, as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxHeadless --startvm <varname>uuid</varname>|<varname>vmname</varname>
                        </pre>
        <p>
            This way of starting the VM helps troubleshooting problems
            reported by <userinput>VBoxManage startvm</userinput>, because
            you can sometimes see more detailed error messages,
            especially for early failures before the VM execution is
            started. In normal situations <userinput>VBoxManage
            startvm</userinput> is preferred, since it runs the VM
            directly as a background process which has to be done
            explicitly when directly starting with
            <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput>. <!--The full documentation of
            the command is in <xref href="man_vboxheadless.dita#man_vboxheadless"/>.-->
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Start <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput> from <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/>, by
            pressing the Shift key when starting a virtual machine or by
            selecting <b outputclass="bold">Headless Start</b>
            from the <b outputclass="bold">Machine</b> menu.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
        When you use the <userinput>VBoxHeadless</userinput> command to
        start a VM, the VRDP server will be enabled according to the VM
        configuration. You can override the VM's setting using
        <codeph>--vrde</codeph> command line parameter. To enable the
        VRDP server, start the VM as follows:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxHeadless --startvm <varname>uuid</varname>|<varname>vmname</varname> --vrde on</pre>
    <p>
        To disable the VRDP server:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxHeadless --startvm <varname>uuid</varname>|<varname>vmname</varname> --vrde off</pre>
    <p>
        To have the VRDP server enabled depending on the VM
        configuration, as for other front-ends:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxHeadless --startvm <varname>uuid</varname>|<varname>vmname</varname> --vrde config</pre>
    <p>
        This command is the same as the following:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxHeadless --startvm <varname>uuid</varname>|<varname>vmname</varname>
                  </pre>
    <p>
        If you start the VM with <userinput>VBoxManage startvm</userinput>
        then the configuration settings of the VM are always used.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
