<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vboxconfigdata-XML-files">
  <title>Oracle VM VirtualBox XML Files</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Oracle VM VirtualBox uses XML for both the machine settings files and
        the global configuration file,
        <filepath>VirtualBox.xml</filepath>.
      </p>
    <p>
        All Oracle VM VirtualBox XML files are versioned. When a new settings
        file is created, for example because a new virtual machine is
        created, Oracle VM VirtualBox automatically uses the settings format
        of the current Oracle VM VirtualBox version. These files may not be
        readable if you downgrade to an earlier version of
        Oracle VM VirtualBox. However, when Oracle VM VirtualBox encounters a
        settings file from an earlier version, such as after upgrading
        Oracle VM VirtualBox, it attempts to preserve the settings format as
        much as possible. It will only silently upgrade the settings
        format if the current settings cannot be expressed in the old
        format, for example because you enabled a feature that was not
        present in an earlier version of Oracle VM VirtualBox.
      </p>
    <p>
        In such cases, Oracle VM VirtualBox backs up the old settings file in
        the virtual machine's configuration directory. If you need to go
        back to the earlier version of Oracle VM VirtualBox, then you will
        need to manually copy these backup files back.
      </p>
    <p>
        We intentionally do not document the specifications of the
        Oracle VM VirtualBox XML files, as we must reserve the right to modify
        them in the future. We therefore strongly suggest that you do
        not edit these files manually. Oracle VM VirtualBox provides complete
        access to its configuration data through its the
        <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command line tool, see
        <xref href="vboxmanage.dita">VBoxManage</xref> and its API, see
        <xref href="VirtualBoxAPI.dita"/>.
      </p>
  </body>
  
</topic>
