<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vdidetails">
            <title>Disk Image Files (VDI, VMDK, VHD, HDD)</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      Disk image files reside on the host system and are seen by the
      guest systems as hard disks of a certain geometry. When a guest OS
      reads from or writes to a hard disk, Oracle VM VirtualBox redirects the
      request to the image file.
    </p>
               <p>
      Like a physical disk, a virtual disk has a size, or capacity,
      which must be specified when the image file is created. As opposed
      to a physical disk however, Oracle VM VirtualBox enables you to expand
      an image file after creation, even if it has data already. See
      <xref href="vboxmanage-modifymedium.dita"/>.
    </p>
               <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox supports the following types of disk image files:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">VDI.</b> Normally, Oracle VM VirtualBox
          uses its own container format for guest hard disks. This is
          called a Virtual Disk Image (VDI) file. This format is used
          when you create a new virtual machine with a new disk.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">VMDK.</b> Oracle VM VirtualBox also
          fully supports the popular and open VMDK container format that
          is used by many other virtualization products, such as VMware.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">VHD.</b> Oracle VM VirtualBox also
          fully supports the VHD format used by Microsoft.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">HDD.</b> Image files of Parallels
          version 2 (HDD format) are also supported.
        </p>
                     <p>
          Due to lack of documentation of the format, newer versions
          such as 3 and 4 are not supported. You can however convert
          such image files to version 2 format using tools provided by
          Parallels.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
               <p>
      Irrespective of the disk capacity and format, as mentioned in
      <xref href="create-vm-wizard.dita#create-vm-wizard"/>, there are two options for
      creating a disk image: fixed-size or dynamically allocated.
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Fixed-size.</b> If you create a
          fixed-size image, an image file will be created on your host
          system which has roughly the same size as the virtual disk's
          capacity. So, for a 10 GB disk, you will have a 10 GB file.
          Note that the creation of a fixed-size image can take a long
          time depending on the size of the image and the write
          performance of your hard disk.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Dynamically allocated.</b> For
          more flexible storage management, use a dynamically allocated
          image. This will initially be very small and not occupy any
          space for unused virtual disk sectors, but will grow every
          time a disk sector is written to for the first time, until the
          drive reaches the maximum capacity chosen when the drive was
          created. While this format takes less space initially, the
          fact that Oracle VM VirtualBox needs to expand the image file
          consumes additional computing resources, so until the disk
          file size has stabilized, write operations may be slower than
          with fixed size disks. However, after a time the rate of
          growth will slow and the average penalty for write operations
          will be negligible.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </body>
            
         </topic>
