<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="virtintro">
            <title>Some Terminology</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      When dealing with virtualization, and also for understanding the
      following chapters of this documentation, it helps to acquaint
      oneself with a bit of crucial terminology, especially the
      following terms:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Host operating system (host
          OS).</b> This is the OS of the physical computer on
          which <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> was installed. There are versions of
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> for Windows, macOS, Linux, and Oracle Solaris
          hosts. See <xref href="hostossupport.dita#hostossupport"/>.
        </p>
                     <p>
          Most of the time, this manual discusses all <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          versions together. There may be platform-specific differences
          which we will point out where appropriate.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Guest operating system (guest
          OS).</b> This is the OS that is running inside the
          virtual machine. Theoretically, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> can run any x86
          OS such as DOS, Windows, OS/2, FreeBSD, and OpenBSD. But to
          achieve near-native performance of the guest code on your
          machine, we had to go through a lot of optimizations that are
          specific to certain OSes. So while your favorite OS
          <i>may</i> run as a guest, we officially support
          and optimize for a select few, which include the most common
          OSes.
        </p>
                     <p>
          See <xref href="guestossupport.dita#guestossupport"/>.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Virtual machine (VM).</b> This is
          the special environment that <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> creates for your
          guest OS while it is running. In other words, you run your
          guest OS <i>in</i> a VM. Normally, a VM is shown
          as a window on your computer's desktop. Depending on which of
          the various frontends of <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> you use, the VM might
          be shown in full screen mode or remotely on another computer.
        </p>
                     <p>
          Internally, <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> treats a VM as a set of parameters
          that specify its behavior. Some parameters describe hardware
          settings, such as the amount of memory and number of CPUs
          assigned. Other parameters describe the state information,
          such as whether the VM is running or saved.
        </p>
                     <p>
          You can view these VM settings in <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/vbox-mgr"/>, in the
          <b outputclass="bold">Settings</b> window, and by
          running the <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command. See
          <xref href="vboxmanage.dita#vboxmanage"/>.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Guest Additions.</b> This refers
          to special software packages which are shipped with
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> but designed to be installed
          <i>inside</i> a VM to improve performance of the
          guest OS and to add extra features. See
          <xref href="guestadditions.dita#guestadditions"/>.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </body>
            
         </topic>
