<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="virt-why-useful">
            <title>Why is Virtualization Useful?</title>
            
            <body>
               <p>
      The techniques and features that <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> provides are
      useful in the following scenarios:
    </p>
               <ul>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Running multiple operating systems
          simultaneously.</b> <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> enables you to run
          more than one OS at a time. This way, you can run software
          written for one OS on another, such as Windows software on
          Linux or a Mac, without having to reboot to use it. Since you
          can configure what kinds of <i>virtual</i>
          hardware should be presented to each such OS, you can install
          an old OS such as DOS or OS/2 even if your real computer's
          hardware is no longer supported by that OS.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Easier software
          installations.</b> Software vendors can use virtual
          machines to ship entire software configurations. For example,
          installing a complete mail server solution on a real machine
          can be a tedious task. With <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, such a complex
          setup, often called an <i>appliance</i>, can be
          packed into a virtual machine. Installing and running a mail
          server becomes as easy as importing such an appliance into
          <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Testing and disaster
          recovery.</b> Once installed, a virtual machine and its
          virtual hard disks can be considered a
          <i>container</i> that can be arbitrarily frozen,
          woken up, copied, backed up, and transported between hosts.
        </p>
                     <p>
          Using virtual machines enables you to build and test a
          multi-node networked service, for example. Issues with
          networking, operating system, and software configuration can
          be investigated easily.
        </p>
                     <p>
          In addition to that, with the use of another <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>
          feature called <i>snapshots</i>, one can save a
          particular state of a virtual machine and revert back to that
          state, if necessary. This way, one can freely experiment with
          a computing environment. If something goes wrong, such as
          problems after installing software or infecting the guest with
          a virus, you can easily switch back to a previous snapshot and
          avoid the need of frequent backups and restores.
        </p>
                     <p>
          Any number of snapshots can be created, allowing you to travel
          back and forward in virtual machine time. You can delete
          snapshots while a VM is running to reclaim disk space.
        </p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>
                        <b outputclass="bold">Infrastructure consolidation.</b>
          Virtualization can significantly reduce hardware and
          electricity costs. Most of the time, computers today only use
          a fraction of their potential power and run with low average
          system loads. A lot of hardware resources as well as
          electricity is thereby wasted. So, instead of running many
          such physical computers that are only partially used, one can
          pack many virtual machines onto a few powerful hosts and
          balance the loads between them.
        </p>
                  </li>
               </ul>
            </body>
            
         </topic>
