<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vm-activity-session-information">
               <title>Session Information Dialog</title>
  <!-- 7.1: metrics info for OCI instances-->  
  <!-- 7.1: Add pic for cloud VM Activity info? No.. removing pics.-->
               <body>
                  <p>The Session Information dialog includes multiple tabs that show important configuration and runtime
      information for the guest system. The tabs are as follows: </p>
                  <ul>
                     <li>
                        <p><b outputclass="bold">Configuration Details</b>. Displays the system configuration of the
          virtual machine in a tabular format. The displayed information includes details such as storage configuration
          and audio settings. </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p><b outputclass="bold">Runtime Information</b>. Displays runtime information for the guest
          session in a tabular format similar to the Configuration Details tab. </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p><b outputclass="bold">VM Activity</b>. Includes several time series charts which monitor
          guest resource usage including CPU, RAM, Disk I/O, and Network. Note that the RAM chart requires the Guest
          Additions to be running on the guest system. The VM Activity tab can also be accessed directly from the VM
          Activity Overview tool. See <xref href="vm-activity-overview.dita#vm-activity-overview"/>. </p>
                     </li>
                     <li>
                        <p><b outputclass="bold">Guest Control</b>. Details of processes used by the Guest Control File
          Manager. See <xref href="guestadd-gc-file-manager.dita#guestadd-gc-file-manager"/>. </p>
                     </li>
                  </ul>
                 <note><p>For cloud VMs, only the VM Activity tab is shown.</p></note>
                  <p>To display session information for a guest VM or a cloud VM, select the VM name in the machine list
      and click <b>Activity</b> in the machine tools menu.</p>
               </body>
               
            </topic>
