<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vmencryption">
  <title>Encryption of VMs</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> enables you to transparently encrypt the VM data
      stored in the configuration file, saved state, and EFI boot data
      for the guest.
    </p>
    <p>
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> uses the AES algorithm in various modes. The
      selected mode depends on the encrypting component of the VM.
      <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> supports 128-bit or 256-bit data encryption keys
      (DEK). The DEK is stored encrypted in the VM configuration file
      and is decrypted during VM startup.
    </p>
    <p>
      Since the DEK is stored as part of the VM configuration file, it
      is important that the file is kept safe. Losing the DEK means that
      the data stored in the VM is lost irrecoverably. Having complete
      and up to date backups of all data related to the VM is the
      responsibility of the user.
    </p>
    <p>
      The VM, even if it is encrypted, may contain media encrypted with
      different passwords. To deal with this, the password for the VM
      has a password identifier, in the same way as passwords for media.
      The password ID is an arbitrary string which uniquely identifies
      the password in the VM and its media. You can use the same
      password and ID for both the VM and its media.
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
