<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vrde">
  <title>Remote Display (VRDP Support)</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox can display virtual machines remotely, meaning that
      a virtual machine can execute on one computer even though the
      machine will be displayed on a second computer, and the machine
      will be controlled from there as well, as if the virtual machine
      was running on that second computer.
    </p>
    <p>
      For maximum flexibility, Oracle VM VirtualBox implements remote machine
      display through a generic extension interface called the
      VirtualBox Remote Desktop Extension (VRDE). The base open source
      Oracle VM VirtualBox package only provides this interface, while
      implementations can be supplied by third parties with
      Oracle VM VirtualBox extension packages, which must be installed
      separately from the base package. See
      <xref href="intro-installing.dita">Installing Oracle VM VirtualBox and Extension Packs</xref>.
    </p>
    <p>
      Oracle provides support for the VirtualBox Remote Display Protocol
      (VRDP) in such an Oracle VM VirtualBox extension package.
    </p>
    <p>
      VRDP is a backwards-compatible extension to Microsoft's Remote
      Desktop Protocol (RDP). As a result, you can use any standard RDP
      client to control the remote VM.
    </p>
    <p>
      Even when the extension is installed, the VRDP server is disabled
      by default. It can easily be enabled on a per-VM basis either from
      VirtualBox Manager in the <b outputclass="bold">Display</b>
      settings, see <xref href="settings-display.dita">Display Settings</xref>, or with the
      <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command, as follows:
    </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --vrde on</pre>
    <p>
      By default, the VRDP server uses TCP port <codeph>3389</codeph>.
      You will need to change the default port if you run more than one
      VRDP server, since the port can only be used by one server at a
      time. You might also need to change it on Windows hosts since the
      default port might already be used by the RDP server that is built
      into Windows itself. Ports 5000 through 5050 are typically not
      used and might be a good choice.
    </p>
    <p>
      The port can be changed either in the
      <b outputclass="bold">Display</b> settings of the graphical
      user interface or with the <codeph>--vrde-port</codeph> option of
      the <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm</userinput> command. You can
      specify a comma-separated list of ports or ranges of ports. Use a
      dash between two port numbers to specify a range. The VRDP server
      will bind to <i>one</i> of the available ports from
      the specified list. For example, <userinput>VBoxManage modifyvm
      <varname>VM-name</varname> --vrde-port
      5000,5010-5012</userinput> configures the server to bind to one of
      the ports 5000, 5010, 5011, or 5012. See
      <xref href="vboxmanage-modifyvm.dita">VBoxManage modifyvm</xref>.
    </p>
    <p>
      The actual port used by a running VM can be either queried with
      the <userinput>VBoxManage showvminfo</userinput> command or seen in
      VirtualBox Manager on the <b outputclass="bold">Runtime</b> tab of
      the <b outputclass="bold">Session Information</b> dialog,
      which is accessible from the
      <b outputclass="bold">Machine</b> menu of the VM window.
    </p>
    <p>
      Oracle VM VirtualBox supports IPv6. If the host OS supports IPv6 the
      VRDP server will automatically listen for IPv6 connections in
      addition to IPv4.
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
