<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="vrde-videochannel">
  <title>VRDP Video Redirection</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        The VRDP server can redirect video streams from the guest to the
        RDP client. Video frames are compressed using the JPEG algorithm
        allowing a higher compression ratio than standard RDP bitmap
        compression methods. It is possible to increase the compression
        ratio by lowering the video quality.
      </p>
    <p>
        The VRDP server automatically detects video streams in a guest
        as frequently updated rectangular areas. As a result, this
        method works with any guest operating system without having to
        install additional software in the guest. In particular, the
        Guest Additions are not required.
      </p>
    <p>
        On the client side, however, currently only the Windows 7 Remote
        Desktop Connection client supports this feature. If a client
        does not support video redirection, the VRDP server falls back
        to regular bitmap updates.
      </p>
    <p>
        The following command enables video redirection:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --vrde-video-channel on</pre>
    <p>
        The quality of the video is defined as a value from 10 to 100
        percent, representing a JPEG compression level, where lower
        numbers mean lower quality but higher compression. The quality
        can be changed using the following command:
      </p>
    <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage modifyvm <varname>VM-name</varname> --vrde-video-channel-quality 75</pre>
  </body>
  
</topic>
