<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="webcam-using-guest">
  <title>Using a Host Webcam in the Guest</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>
        Oracle VM VirtualBox includes a feature called <i>webcam
        passthrough</i>, which enables a guest to use a host
        webcam. This complements the general USB passthrough support
        which was the typical way of using host webcams in legacy
        releases. The webcam passthrough support can handle non-USB
        video sources in theory, but this is completely untested.
      </p>
    <note>
      <p>
          The webcam passthrough module is shipped as part of the
          Oracle VM VirtualBox extension pack, which must be installed
          separately. See <xref href="intro-installing.dita">Installing Oracle VM VirtualBox and Extension Packs</xref>.
        </p>
    </note>
    <p>
        The host webcam can be attached to the VM using the
        <b outputclass="bold">Devices</b> menu in the VM menu
        bar. The <b outputclass="bold">Webcams</b> menu contains
        a list of available video input devices on the host. Clicking on
        a webcam name attaches or detaches the corresponding host
        device.
      </p>
    <p>
        The <userinput>VBoxManage</userinput> command line tool can be used
        to enable webcam passthrough. Please see the host-specific
        sections below for additional details. The following commands
        are available:
      </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <p>
            Get a list of host webcams, or other video input devices:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">$ VBoxManage list webcams</pre>
        <p>
            The output format is as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">alias "user friendly name"
host path or identifier</pre>
        <p>
            The alias can be used as a shortcut in other commands. Alias
            '.0' means the default video input device on the host. Alias
            '.1', '.2'means first, second video input device, and so on.
            The device order is host-specific.
          </p>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Attach a webcam to a running VM, as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage controlvm <varname>VM name</varname> webcam attach [<varname>host_path</varname>|<varname>alias</varname> [<varname>settings</varname>]]</pre>
        <p>
            This attaches a USB webcam device to the guest.
          </p>
        <p>
            The <codeph>settings</codeph> parameter is a string
            <codeph>Setting1=Value1;Setting2=Value2</codeph>, which
            enables you to configure the emulated webcam device. The
            following settings are supported:
          </p>
        <ul>
          <li>
            <p><codeph>MaxFramerate</codeph>: The highest rate at
                which video frames are sent to the guest. A higher frame
                rate requires more CPU power. Therefore sometimes it is
                useful to set a lower limit. Default is no limit and
                allow the guest to use all frame rates supported by the
                host webcam.
              </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            <p><codeph>MaxPayloadTransferSize</codeph>: How many
                bytes the emulated webcam can send to the guest at a
                time. Default value is 3060 bytes, which is used by some
                webcams. Higher values can slightly reduce CPU load, if
                the guest is able to use larger buffers. However, a high
                <codeph>MaxPayloadTransferSize</codeph> might be not
                supported by some guests.
              </p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            Detach a webcam from a running VM, as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage controlvm <varname>VM-name</varname> webcam detach [<varname>host_path</varname>|<varname>alias</varname>]</pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        <p>
            List the webcams attached to a running VM, as follows:
          </p>
        <pre xml:space="preserve">VBoxManage controlvm <varname>VM-name</varname> webcam list</pre>
        <p>
            The output contains the path or alias which was used in the
            <userinput>webcam attach</userinput> command for each attached
            webcam.
          </p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </body>
  
</topic>
