<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--
 | LICENSE: This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project hosted on
 |          Sourceforge.net. See the accompanying license.txt file for
 |          applicable licenses.
 *-->
<!--
 | (C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2006. All Rights Reserved.
 *-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN"
 "task.dtd">
<task id="dbInstall" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Installing the DocBook-DITA plugin</title>
<shortdesc>This plugin provides a transform from Docbook to DITA and some
proof-of-concept examples of interoperability.</shortdesc>
<taskbody>
<steps>
<step><cmd>You must install the DITA Open Toolkit 1.3 or higher and run a test
build to verify the installation.
</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>It's also recommended that you install the DocBook tools at
version 1.69.1 and the DocBook 4.4 DTDs.</cmd>
<info>Other versions may work but haven't been tested.</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Edit the dbdita.properties file in the plugin directory to
identify the location of the DocBook tools and document types.
</cmd></step>
<step><cmd>In the base directory for the DITA Open Toolkit, install
the plugin.
</cmd>
<stepxmp>
<p>You execute the following command (using blackslashes instead of 
slashes on Windows):</p>
<codeblock>ant -f demo\dbdita\install-plugin.xml</codeblock>
</stepxmp>
</step>
<step><cmd>Verify the plugin installed correctly with a sample build.</cmd>
<stepxmp>
<p>You can execute the following command (again, using blackslashes
instead of slashes on Windows):</p>
<codeblock>ant -f demo\dbdita\run-ant.xml docbook2DITADemo</codeblock>
</stepxmp>
</step>
</steps>
<result><p>You can use the DocBook-to-DITA transform on your own
DocBook content or explore the interoperability demos.
</p>
</result>
</taskbody>
</task>
