<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--
 | LICENSE: This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project hosted on
 |          Sourceforge.net. See the accompanying license.txt file for
 |          applicable licenses.
 *-->
<!--
 | (C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2006. All Rights Reserved.
 *-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="demoxsl" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Demonstration transforms</title>
<shortdesc>The examples of DocBook and DITA interoperability can be processed
with demonstration transforms.</shortdesc>
<body>
<p>The plugin contributes the following targets to the DITA Open Toolkit: </p>
<dl><dlentry>
<dt>docbook2dita</dt>
<dd>Convert DocBook divisions to DITA topics. The DITA topics can then be
processed with the DITA Open Toolkit.<p>Executed by the <keyword>docbook2DITADemo</keyword> target
in the run-ant demo build.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>docbookRelatePush</dt>
<dd>Push relationships from a DITA map into DocBook articles. The DocBook
articles can then be processed with the DocBook transform tools.<p>Executed
by the <keyword>docbookRelateDemo</keyword> target in the run-ant demo build.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>docbookMix2dita</dt>
<dd>Convert DocBook articles referenced from a DITA map to DITA. The DITA
map can then be processed with the DITA Open Toolkit.<p>Executed by the <keyword>docbookMixDemo</keyword> target
in the run-ant demo build.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>docbookCompose2docbook</dt>
<dd>Assemble a DocBook book from DocBook divisions as specified by a DITA
map. The DocBook book can then be processed with the DocBook transform tools.<p>Executed
by the <keyword>docbookComposeDemo</keyword> target in the run-ant demo build.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>docbookDitaref2docbook</dt>
<dd>Populate a DocBook book by reference to a DITA map. The DocBook book can
then be processed with the DocBook transform tools.<p>Executed by the <keyword>docbookDitarefDemo</keyword> target
in the run-ant demo build.</p></dd>
</dlentry></dl>
</body>
</topic>
