<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--
 | LICENSE: This file is part of the DITA Open Toolkit project hosted on
 |          Sourceforge.net. See the accompanying license.txt file for
 |          applicable licenses.
 *-->
<!--
 | (C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2006. All Rights Reserved.
 *-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="docbook2dita" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The Docbook to DITA transform</title>
<shortdesc>This directory provides the docbook-to-dita transform. </shortdesc>
<body>
<p>The Docbook-to-DITA transform uses a design pattern that might be called <term>a
dialogue transform</term>. This approach makes a strict separation between
the input and output logic. Generating an output element requires a conversation
between the output writer and the input reader:</p>
<dl><dlentry>
<dt>DITA writer</dt>
<dd>The DITA writer knows how to generate DITA output. After producing an
element, the writer requests the attributes and content of the element from
the reader. For instance, the paragraph output rule generates a <codeph>&lt;p></codeph> element
and then requests the id attribute and other attributes of the paragraph and
then the paragraph content. Where the content is a simple sequence (for instance,
as with a topic or list), the writer requests in the subelements individually. </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Docbook reader</dt>
<dd>The Docbook reader knows how to read Docbook input. When the DITA writer
requests an attribute or content, the reader is responsible for satisfying
the request from the current input context. For instance, when the DITA paragraph
writer requests an id attribute, the reader might copy the id attribute from
the current Docbook input element or from a nearby Docbook input element.
The reader can also generate an id attribute or skip the id attribute. Similarly,
when the DITA paragraph writer requests paragraph content, the reader can
provide paragraph content by invoking the output rules on any of the text
and subelements from the input (often but not necessarily from content of
the current input element).</dd>
</dlentry></dl>
<p>This directory provides the following modules:</p>
<dl><dlentry>
<dt>docbook2dita.xsl</dt>
<dd>This module combines the Docbook reader and DITA writer to transform Docbook
input to DITA output.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>dbReader.xsl</dt>
<dd>This module provides the base Docbook reader. The module can be extended
by other modules that override the base module to handle requests from the
DITA writer in different ways.</dd>
</dlentry></dl>
</body>
</topic>
